Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/31087/
Abstract: Plasma immunoreactive secretin concentrations were determined in both healthy subjects and patients with duodenal ulcer. The modified radioimmunoassay method could detect significant increases in the plasma secretin concentrations when 0.05 N HCl was infused intraduodenally at a rate of 1.1 and 2.2 ml/min. The mean fasting plasma secretin concentration of 13 normal healthy subjects was 4.4 +/- 0.38 pg/ml which was significantly less (P less than 0.01) than that of 13 duodenal ulcer patients, 6.9 +/- 0.64 pg/ml. In both groups ingestion of a meat-containing meal resulted in significant increase in the plasma secretin concentrations. Recording of pH from proximal duodenum indicated that pH fell periodically below 4.5 during the postprandial period, indicating that only a short segment of proximal duodenum was exposed to acid after meal. The postprandial rise in plasma secretin levels was abolished when antral pH was raised 5.5 by intragastric infusion of 0.3 N NaHCO3 solution. These observations indicate that although fasting plasma secretin levels are low, the plasma secretin levels increase significantly after ingestion of a meal. This increase appears to be attributable to an increased amount of acid delivered to the proximal duodenum, and patients with duodenal ulcer were found to release more secretin during the postprandial period than normal subjects. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/31397/
Abstract: Detailed comparison of acid lipase and acid esterase activities of human spleen, liver and kidney homogenates has been carried out by means of the following substrates: 14C-tripalmitin, alpha-naphthyl acetate, alpha-naphthyl butyrate, alpha-naphthyl laurate, p-nitro-phenyl acetate, butyrate and laurate. In addition, homogenates of the three tissues were subjected to isoelectric focusing in polyacrylamide gels and histochemical staining with the above mentioned naphthyl substrates in the presence and absence of the organophosphate esterase inhibitor diethyl-p-nitrophenyl phosphate (E 600). These studies provide extensive support for the proposal that E 600-resistant acid naphthyl butyryl and lauryl esterase activities in human tissues derive largely from the enzyme acid lipase. The studies suggest that the most specific chromogenic substrate for this enzyme at a biochemical and histochemical level is alpha-napthyl laurate in the presence of E600 (3 X 10(-6) M). 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/31358/
Abstract: beta-Aspartyl-methionine, -aspartic acid and -glutamic acid and gamma-glutamyl-threonine and -glycine were isolated and identified in human urine by ion-exchange chromatography, high-voltage paper electrophoresis, acid hydrolysis and determination of N-terminal amino acids of the isolated compounds, and comparison of their behaviors in paper electrophoresis and chromatography with those of the authentic compounds. The concentrations of acidic beta-aspartyl dipeptides in human urine were determined using an amino acid analyzer. Their concentrations were as follows: beta-aspartyl-glycine, male, 44.4 +/- 8.5, female, 61.4 +/- 18.9, child, 83.7 +/- 27.1; -alanine, male, 11.0 +/- 4.9, female, 20.7 +/- 12.0, child, 25.3 +/- 9.1; -glutamic acid, male, 10.0 +/- 3.7, female, 23.0 +/- 8.5, child, 20.4 +/- 7.5; -serine, male, 9.9 +/- 2.8, female, 13.6 +/- 3.8, child, 14.9 +/- 4.7; -aspartic acid, male, 4.3 +/- 1.0, female, 9.1 +/- 2.2, child, 18.4 +/- 6.5; -threonine, male 3.9 +/- 0.9, female, 5.8 +/- 1.1, child, 13.2 +/- 4.9 mumol/g creatinine (mean +/- S.D.). The order of the sum of their concentrations tended to be child greater than female greater than male. Patients receiving intravenous hyperalimentation also excreted acidic beta-aspartyl dipeptides into urine in amounts similar to those in females and in a pattern similar to that observed in healthy persons. This finding indicates that urinary beta-aspartyl dipeptides were probably of endogenous origin because oral nutrition was stringently excluded in these patients. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/31336/
Abstract: DL-alpha-methyl-p-tyrosine methyl ester hydrochloride affected the hyperphagia and hypothermia characteristic of the genetically obese mouse (genotype, ob/ob) throughout an experimental period of 5 days. Intraperitoneal injections of 100 mg/kg body weight, daily, resulted in a significant increase in the average daily food consumption by 60 per cent, already elevated 35 per cent above that of lean litter-mates. The drug, administered at the same dose, caused a similar percentage elevation of food intake in the lean litter-mates. Rectal temperatures of obese mice were raised significantly throughout the 5-day period by an average of 0.95 degrees C, following administration of the drug. There was a significant rise of 0.75 degrees C in the rectal temperature of lean mice on 2 of the 5 days in the period. Body weight remained unchanged. Further experiments are necessary to determine the site of action at which DL-alpha-methyl-p-tyrosine brings about these effects at this dose in lean and obese mice. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/31767/
Abstract: Cottonseeds contain protein with desirable food functional and nutritional properties. Storage globulins make up most of the protein stored in cottonseed and can be separated into five fractions by gel filtration chromatography. Each fraction is distinguishable from the other by its amino acid and polyacrylamide gel electrophoretic properties. Proteins of cottonseed contribute greatly to the functional properties of emulsions, co-isolates, and texturized derivatives. For example, increasing the amount of high protein cottonseed flour in wheat suspensions from 2% to 10% improved the capacity (54-97 ml of oil) and viscosity (5,000-100,000+ cps) of emulsions. The 10% suspension formed emulsions with increasing oil capacity (84-100 ml) and viscosity (28,000-100,000+ cps) as the pH was adjusted from 4.5 to 9.5. Consistencies of the products ranged from that of salad dressing (low percent suspensions, or acid pH) to that of mayonnaise (high percent, or basic pH). These data were utilized to derive a multiple regression model to predict optimum use of cottonseed proteins in emulsions of varying consistencies. A coprecipitated isolate containing greater than 94% protein was prepared from a blend of cottonseed and peanut flours. Amino acid content of the co-isolate reflected that of the protein in the two flours of the composite. The co-isolate has lower gossypol level and improved color and functional properties than a cottonseed protein isolate. Storage protein isolate of cottonseed suspended in aqueous solution and heated with constant stirring forms a texturized product; the quality of the product depends on heat, pH, salt, and the quantity of nonstorage proteins. Protein and amino acid content of meat products were improved by the addition of the texturized protein of cottonseed. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/31674/
Abstract: Gastric acid secretion stimulated by a normally eaten beefsteak meal was measured for 4 h in 16 patients with duodenal ulcer disease (DU), in 9 patients with gastric ulcer disease (GU), and in 14 controls by intragastric titration with bicarbonate to a constant pH 5.5. Reproducibility of the method investigated in 6 DU and in 5 controls gave similar acid secretory values (var. coeff. = 7.5%). DU produced acid on a higher level and with longer duration after food than controls and GU (p less than 0.001). Apart from the second half of the first hour after food, when the acid secretion was higher in controls than in GU (p less than 0.025), there was no significant difference in acid output after food between GU and controls. Maximum gastrin values and 'total gastrin output' after food were significantly higher in GU than in controls, but these differences were not significant between GU and DU and between DU and controls. Fasting gastrin and gastrin levels after food were not correlated to basal acid output or acid output after pentagastrin or food in any of the groups. The maximal acid output after food was higher than the peak acid output after pentagastrin in controls, DU and GU. The relation between food- and pentagastrin-stimulated acid output was not statistically significantly different between the three groups. Instead, acid secretion after food was well correlated to acid secretion after pentagastrin in controls, DU and GU (r = 0.85). 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32046/
Abstract: The absorption of acetylsalicylic acid (ASA) from two different enteric-coated dosage forms, tablets (Premaspin) and granules (Reumyl), was studied in healthy volunteers under fasting and non-fasting conditions by following the plasma concentration and urine recovery of salicylates after single doses of ASA 1 g. Conventional tablets (Aspirin) were used as the reference. Under fasting conditions the absorption of ASA from the two different enteric-coated preparations was complete. Taken with food the enteric-coated tablets gave much lower plasma concentrations than under fasting conditions, and absorption was not complete in all subjects. In contrast, absorption from the enteric-coated granules was not influenced by the intake of food. It was concluded that enteric-coated granules of ASA permit more reproducible absorption than enteric-coated tablets. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32102/
Abstract: Two patients, each with a large rectovaginal fistula, were managed successfully by intravenous feeding and surgical repair of their fistulae. Intravenous feeding eliminated the need for food from the gastrointestinal tract, thus minimizing the fecal flow. Both fistulae healed following surgical repair. Neither patient required a diverting colostomy. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32582/
Abstract: Streptococcus mutans converts low levels of sucrose to lactic acid, but at high levels favours synthesis of glucans for plaque accumulation. Thus, the continued exposure to sucrose fluxes would select microorganisms in the oral cavity (S. mutans being a prototype) with highly specialized adaptation and potential dental caries activity. The bacteria that have evolved physiological systems to function efficiently under these conditions are the lactic acid bacteria. These organisms survive in environments where carbohydrate availability is constantly changing. High tolerances to acidic environments may be an important determinant in establishing the ecology of the carious lesion. Also, the intercellular polysaccharide storgae (glycogenamylopectin) and extracellular polymer reserves (levan and soluble glucan) are important during carbohydrate depletion. Further, the formation of insoluble glucans is a prerequisite for the caries process on smooth surfaces of teeth through plaque development. These conditions could result in an increase in S. mutans and cariogenic microorganisms. As a result, this process may be best understood as a manifestation of an amphibiotic shift. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32067/
Abstract: A new procedure utilizing dried blood spots was developed for detecting glutathione peroxidase deficiency. Samples from a known patient with a partial defect and from rats with an induced deficiency were distinguished from respective control groups by their longer defluorescence endpoints. Samples from 100 patients with anemia and 2 phenyl-ketonuric infants on low-protein diets contained glutathione peroxidase activity similar to that in 82 controls, when screened for the enzyme defect by the new procedure. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/48058/
Abstract: Four patients with homozygous hyperbetalipoproteinaemia who had proved resistant to intensive medical therapy have undergone portacaval shunt. During 3 weeks of total parenteral alimentation before the operation, the serum-cholesterol decreased significantly in each of the four patients. During the fat-emulsion phase of hyperalimentation, one patient experienced a rise in cholesterol. Postoperatively, the size of xanthomas decreased in all cases; serum-cholesterol levels rose above those achieved during hyperalimentation, and this rise continued for as long as 3 months before a further reduction was recorded. In patients with angina, this improved considerably; and in most cases bruits decreased in itensity. The results at this stage do not, however, suggest portacaval shunt for all patients with homozygous hypercholesterolaemia. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/48303/
Abstract: Eleven patients with terminal metastatic prostatic carcinoma were selected for a pilot study to evaluate how effective diethylstilbestrol diphosphate (Stilphostrol) and cylcophosphamide (Cytoxan) are in this disease. Six of 7 patients had a good response when treated with diethylstilbestrol diphosphate. The mean duration of response was 6.4 months. All 6 patients given cyclophosphamide had marked relief of pain and increased mobility. Of these, 3 died twelve, sixteen, and nineteen weeks, respectively, following initiation of therapy while still benefiting from pain relief. The mean duration of response was 14.8 weeks. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/48611/
Abstract: Forty-six of sixty-eight rural Nigerian adult patients with sputum-positive pulmonary tuberculosis (P.T.B.) had skin reactions of less than 10 mm. in response to 4 or 5 tuberculin units of purified protein derivative (P.P.D.). The size of the reaction correlated significantly with serum albumin and transferrin concentrations. The diminished reaction in these patients seems to be part of a generalized depression of cell-mediated immunity associated with undernutrition rather than a specific depression of P.P.D. reactivity associated with overwhelming antigen load. It is concluded that the tuberculin test is of no value in the diagnosis of P.T.B. in this community, either in individual cases or epidemiological surveys, unless combined with a biochemical assessment of the person's nutritional status. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/48363/
Abstract: Whole blood, plasma, or serum levels of various components were measured in fasting, drug-free control subjects and drug-free schizophrenic patients. Compared to normal controls, chronic schizophrenic patients showed increased alpha2-globulins and decreased plasma cholinesterase activity and ceruloplasmin activity, and acute schizophrenic patients showed decreased alpha2-globulins. Compared to chronic patients, acute schizophrenics showed decreased alpha2-globulins and IgA. Compared to normal controls of similar age, chronic schizophrenic patients weighed less, were shorter, and had smaller body surface area. The acute schizophrenic patients were significantly younger than the normal subjects or chronic schizophrenics but there was no difference in the other physical measurements. The present study indicates no gross disturbances in the blood variables studied. That some differences are statistically significant from controls is of scientific interest, but of no clinical value in the diagnosis of schizophrenia. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/48276/
Abstract: Six euthyroid patients without clinical or biochemical evidence of any renal or thyroid disorder received a diet of fixed composition. They were given no drugs. Urine was collected quantitatively throughout the whole investigation for determination of iodine and creatinine. After 5 days on diet they received 1.91 mumol of erythrosine, corresponding to approximately 7.88 mumol of iodine daily for 10 days. Thyroidal radioiodine studies were performed, levels of plasma inorganic iodine were calculated, and thyroxine, protein-bound iodine, and total iodine in serum were determined before and during erythrosine ingestion. A statistically significant increase in plasma inorganic iodine or in urinary iodine excretion was not found. The other test results of thyroid function remained virtually unchanged. Based on clinical aspects of thyroidal iodine metabolism we conclude that at most 7.8 per cent of the iodine content of the ingested erythrosine could have supplemented the iodine space. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/48182/
Abstract: In explorations with 42 patients, who have got 2 g of fat per kg body weight, Heidsick, a member of our hospital, discussed quantitative and qualitative changing in basophil leucocytes in relation to the cholesterol and triglyceride content of the blood and the body weight. He showed, that there was an increase of basophil leucocytes under the load of fat and a changing in their cellular structure. There was no significant relation to the cholesterol level in blood, but there was such one in a group of healthy persons to the triglyceride level. Important was also a significant correlation between the body weight and the number of basophilic leucocytes. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/48624/
Abstract: In many mammals infant behaviour imposes a period during which the young will only take the mother's milk. It is suggested that the immunological components of the milk serve in this period to augment the baby's immune system while he traverses from the antigenic isolation of a fetus to his independent defence. In humans almost all cot deaths occur during this phase. Diverse statistics relating to factors associated with greater risk of cot death are drawn on, suggesting that a number of seemingly unconnected factors can all (including lack of breast-feeding) be interpreted as potential immunity defaults. This interpretation lends support to the idea of an immune mechanism underlying cot death which in some way is an abnormal response resulting from the default and which, with at least one other precipitating mechanism, leads to death. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/48776/
Abstract: Two patients are described in whom the preliminary clinical and laboratory investigations suggested a diagnosis of osteomalacia, from gluten-sensitive enteropathy in one and from anticonvulsant therapy in the other. However, when the primary disease was corrected by diet and extra vitamin D, respectively, both patients developed hypercalcaemia. A standard hydrocortisone test in the second patient failed to reduce the hypercalcaemia. In both patients parathyroid tumours were found at operation. It is suggested that both patients had tertiary hyperparathyroidism in which the normally tell-tale hypercalcaemia was at first masked by the other abnormalities, and that this masking may account for some cases reported as having normocalcaemic primary (or tertiary) hyperpatathyroidism. Interpretation of total plasma-calcium is likely to be unreliable unless the 25-hydroxyvitamin-D levels can be shown or assumed to be normal. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/48730/
Abstract: Parts of Western India have experienced an outbreak of hepatitis affecting man and dogs and characterised by jaundice, rapidly developing ascites, portal hypertension, and a high mortality-rate. The disease was associated with the consumption of maize contaminated heavily with Aspergillus flavus. Analysis of contaminated samples showed that affected people could have consumed between 2 and 6 mg. of aflatoxin daily over a period of a month. A specimen of liver obtained at necropsy showed bileduct proliferation and giant cells. The disease appears to be a result of aflatoxicosis. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/48896/
Abstract: Oral glucose-tolerance test (O.G.T.T.) plasma sugar and insulin levels were measured in 118 newly diagnosed maturity-onset diabetic patients before and after treatment with diet alone for periods of 2 and 6 months. The results of glucose-tolerance tests carried out during treatment could be predicted from the initial test and the weight reduction between the tests. This prediction was not improved by the addition of further variables, including age, obesity, and plasma-insulin levels during the first test. The change in O.C.T.T. plasma-insulin between the first and second tests was predicted by the result of the initial tests, the improvement of glucose tolerance between the two tests, and the degree of weight reduction. 95% of the group achieved some improvement of glucose tolerance after 2 months of dietary treatment, and 59% of the group achieved adequate diabetic control by this time. It is concluded that treatment with diet alone should be the first-line management for patients with newly diagnosed maturity-onset diabetes mellitus. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/48908/
Abstract: From 1968 to 1974 seven cases of septicaemia and purulent meningitis caused by porcine streptococci of the Lancefield group R and three cases caused by similar streptococci lacking R antigen occurred in the Netherlands. Bacteria isolated from all ten patients shared the characteristics of a biochemically well defined bacterial species (provisionally called Streptococcus subacidus) which until 1968 was only found in pigs. Nine of the ten patients had had intensive contact with live or slaughtered pigs. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/58152/
Abstract: Geographic differences in the rates of breast, endometrial, and ovarian cancer appear to be inversely correlated with dietary iodine intake. Endocrinological considerations suggest that a low dietary iodine intake may produce a state of increased effective gonadotrophin stimulation, which in turn may produce a hyperoestrogenic state characterised by relatively high production of oestrone and oestradiol and a relatively low oestriol to oestrone plus oestradiol ratio. This altered endocrine state may increase the risk of breast, endometrial, and ovarian cancer. Increasing dietary iodine intake may reduce the risk of these cancers. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/63007/
Abstract: Geographic comparison reveals a positive correlation between consumption of animal protein, particularly bovine protein, and lymphoma mortality. Allied observations suggest that excessive consumption of animal protein may, through antigen absorption and chronic persistent stimulation, impose considerable wear and tear on lymphoid tissue and thereby encourage malignant changes. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/63553/
Abstract: A serotyping scheme for Clostridium welchii (C. perfringens) type A employing 57 antisera has been used to investigate the epidemiology of 153 food-poisoning outbreaks and 32 cases of gas gangrene and other clinical infections. Respectively 65% and 59% of the isolates were typable, and in 55% of the food-poisoning outbreaks the causative serotypes were established. Isolation and reporting methods that would render the typing scheme of even greater epidemiological value are described. The type-specific antigen was shown to reside in the capsule and to be lost from strains that had become rough. Development of roughness and its prevention are described. A great range of antisera and an internationally acceptable serotyping scheme is expected after integration of this set with those developed independently in America and Japan. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/63364/
Abstract: In many African countries measles is considered to be an important cause of blindness. On the basis of his observations in Kenya and Tanzania in 1972 Franken presumed, however, that in the majority of these cases xerophthalmia was the real cause of blindness, precipitated by the "catalyst" measles. In order to gain a better understanding of this important complicated problem, we performed in the first half of 1974 an investigation in Kenya into the prevalence of xerophthalmia. In December 1974 we had the opportunity to evaluate our Kenyan findings on Java, in the company of Dr. J. ten Doesschate and Professor H.A.P.C. Oomen. The results of this investigation in Kenya and Indonesia are presented in this thesis. (see article) 1. Xerophthalmia occurred nearly everywhere in Kenya in 1974. This demonstrates the prevalence of xerophthalmia in communities which - do not have rice but - have maize for their staplefood. 2. Xerophthalmia appears to be the main cause of blindness in Kenyan children. 3. Measles often plays - by means of local and general "catalysing" effects - an important role in the development of blindness caused by xerophthalmia. 4. In well-nourished children measles is of no consequence as a cause of blindness. 5. Vital staining by 1% rose bengal or 1% lissamine green appears to be a real asset for the early diagnosis of xerophthalmia in Health Centres and in field surveys. This method is therefore of great importance for the prevention of severe, blindness inducing vitamin A deficiency. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/63709/
Abstract: Twenty children and young adults with familial hypercholesterolaemia (F.H.), on a diet low in cholesterol and high in polyunsaturated fats, were treated with cholestyramine in a metabolic unit to determine the decrease in plasma cholesterol and low-density lipoprotein (L.D.L.) cholesterol in relation to drug dosage, pretreatment concentrations of cholesterol and L.D.L. cholesterol, and body-weight. When the dose of cholestyramine was increased in thirteen patients by 1 g/day up to 16 g/day, given twice daily, cholesterol and L.D.L. cholesterol fell within the normal range in eleven subjects (average dose, 7 g/day), and the response was directly proportional (P less than less than 0-001) to the pretreatment concentrations of cholesterol (r = 0-89) and L.D.L. cholesterol (r = 0-93) but did not correlate with body-weight. Plasma total cholesterol and L.D.L. cholesterol continued to fall and concentrations reached a plateau after which additional cholestyramine had no further effect (average dose, 11 g/day). The L.D.L. cholesterol regression line successfully predicted the dose required to reduce L.D.L. cholesterol concentrations in seven other patients. There was a significant decrease in mean serum-folate in female patients. It was concluded that the minimum effective dose of cholestyramine in young patients with F.H. can be predicted from the pretreatment plasma total and L.D.L. cholesterol and may be given twice daily. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/63941/
Abstract: The increasing intraneuronal accumulation of lipofuscin has been linked to the aging process by a striking linear correlation between the degree of accumulation and chronological age. It has been established that age pigments are soluble in polar and nonpolar solvents; the pigment is autofluorescent and stains with PAS, Sudan black B, Nile blue osmic acid and ferric ferricyanide techniques. Whether all pigments exhibiting these properties are identical, or at least closely related, regardless of the surrounding tissue, animal species and age of the individual, is debatable. Pigment formation has been demonstrated in young and aged animals as well as in individual subjected to experimental stress and to dietetic and environmental interference. Electron microscopic studies in animals have shown a considerable variability in the fine structure of individual lipofuscin granules but the presence of "lucent vacuoles" surrounded by a unit membrane is one of the characteristic features of neuronal lipofuscin in the aged. Recently, electron microscopy, utilizing the freeze-etching technique, has provided convincing evidence which disproves the earlier view that lucent vacuoles are the remnant of lipid material dissolved and removed during the preparation of the tissues for microscopic examination. These vacuoles have also been demonstrated in freshly frozen material not previously fixed or immersed. Vacuolated pigment granules occur earlier in the area postrema than in other regions of the rat brain (Hasan and Heyder 1974). Regional differences in the time sequence of pigment deposition are present. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/63976/
Abstract: Eleven children with phenylketonuria (PKU) taken off diet after the age of six showed significant decreases in rate of mental development compared with 26 control children children of comparable IQ and with 17 PKU children of comparable IQ who remained on the diet. Changes in rate of mental development were significantly and inversely correlated with plasma phenylalanine levels in treated PKU. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/64129/
Abstract: Urticaria can result from many different stimuli, and numerous factors, both immunologic and nonimmunologic, are involved in its pathogenesis. Most commonly considered of immunologic mechanisms is the type I hypersensitivity state mediated by IgE. Another immunologic mechanism involves the activation of the complement cascade, which produces anaphylatoxins that can release histamine. Immunologic, nonimmunologic, genetic, and modulating factors converge on mast cells and basophils to release mediators capable of producing urticarial lesions. In addition to the clinical and laboratory diagnosis and treatment regimens, we review such mediators as histamine, kinins, serotonin, slow-reacting substance of anaphylaxis, prostaglandins, acetylcholine, fibrin degradation products, and anaphylatoxins that increase vascular permeability and can thereby produce wheals. Special consideration is given to histamine and the factors that regulate is secretory release from mast cells and basophils, including the modulating role of intracellular levels of cyclic adenosine monophosphate. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/74082/
Abstract: None of the single manifestations is in itself specific or pathognomonic for this disease except for the disturbance of the metabolism of phytanic acid. Therefore, clinical syndromes that involve similar manifestations without accumulations of phytanic acid should not be included under the term heredopathia atactica polyneuritiformis, or Refsum's disease. Whatever the biochemical mechanism that links phytanic acid accumulation with the clinical manifestations of heredopathia atactica polyneuritiformis, it appears that the observations made on patients following successful dietary treatment leave little doubt that most if not all of the manifestations in this disease are caused in some way by the accumulation of phytanic acid. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/73899/
Abstract: Probable bacterial contamination of the small bowel without an anatomical sump occurred in 5 elderly patients (age 68--94). They presented with severe general deterioration in health rather than with obvious features of malabsorption. This syndrome has not been clearly described before. Bacterial deconjugation of bile salts was indentified by the 14C-glycocholic-acid breath test. Investigations for other causes of malabsorption, including small-bowel biopsy and pancreatic scan, revealed no abnormality. After prolonged ill-health despite an adequate diet in hospital, all 5 subjects made a striking recovery after treatment with antibiotics. This condition may be quite common, particularly in malnourished elderly people. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/73950/
Abstract: Oral vitamin D3 was poorly absorbed by 4 out of 6 patients with primary biliary cirrhosis; absorption was negatively correlated with faecal fat excretion. 25-hydroxylation of vitamin D3 given by mouth or intravenously was not impaired in the patients compared with controls of similar vitamin-D nutritional status. Urinary radioactivity derived from the intravenous dose of vitamin D3 was significantly greater in patients than in controls and was positively correlated with the serum-bilirubin concentration. Excretion in the urine may lead to loss of administered and endogenous vitamin D and thus contribute to vitamin-D deficiency in patients with primary biliary cirrhosis. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/73796/
Abstract: Two test meals were taken in random order on separate days by 8 non-insulin-requiring diabetic volunteers after 14-hour overnight fasts. Addition of 16 g guar and 10 g pectin to the control meal containing 106 g carbohydrate decreased markedly and significantly the rise in blood-glucose between 30 and 90 minutes and also resulted in significantly lower insulin levels between 30 and 120 minutes. When these meals were fed to 3 insulin-dependent diabetic subjects, a similar flattening of the post-prandial glucose rise ensued. This addition of certain forms of dietary fibre to the diet of diabetics significantly decreases post-prandial hyperglycaemia and would be expected to improve the control of blood-glucose concentration. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/73742/
Abstract: Four patients who had been on regular haemodialysis for periods of 3 1/2 to 7 years became hypophosphataemic with plasma-phosphate concentrations of 2.5 mg/dl or less before dialysis. None of them had been taking oral phosphate-binders for 2 years or more. Histologically all the patients had an excess of osteoid on bone biopsy. Intestinal absorption of phosphate and calcium was impaired, despite normal or high serum-25-hydroxycholecaliferol concentrations. Treatment with oral dihydrotachysterol resulted in corrections of the phosphate malabsorption and increases in plasma-phosphate concentration. The initial low plasma-phosphate values in these patients before dialysis probably reflected a state of phosphate depletion caused by the combination of malabsorption, loss during dialysis, and a low dietary intake. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/74114/
Abstract: A report of eight cases with grand mal seizures secondary to accidental ingestion/exposure to benzahexachlorine has been presented. Persistant neurological signs and biochemical tests have been described. Seizures affected even the domestic animals like cows and buffaloes. Discussion of various clinical syndromes, treatment of organochlorine pesticide and their persistence in human body for years after removal from source of exposure is emphasized. Preventive measures are recommended. the authors are not aware of any similar reports from this part of the country. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/74571/
Abstract: In 10 patients undergoing heart-valve replacement with cardiopulmonary bypass total-body potassium was measured non-invasively with a whole-body monitor, and this measurement was used to derive the lean body mass as an index of the nutritional status. From measurements made before operation and on the 7th postoperative day, the metabolic response to surgery was found to be equivalent to a negative nitrogen balance of 10.8 g of nitrogen a day (50% greater than that calculated from conventional nitrogen-balance studies). 4 patients had a mean preoperative potassium depletion of 17.2%, and this was associated with increased morbidity. Well-nourished patients had a mean postoperative hospital stay of 16 days, whereas those in a depleted state before operation had an increased morbidity, as measured by their mean postoperative stay of 30 days. More attention needs to be given to the preoperative nutritional status of patients undergoing heart-valve replacement. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/74495/
Abstract: Red cells and the lens of the eye are non-nucleated cells; moreover, they have metabolic similarities. Cataracts develop in childhood in homozygotes for galactosaemic abnormalities, which can be detected by biochemical measurements in red blood-cells. It has not been determined whether heterozygotes for these defects are at greater risk for cataract development later in life. Similarly, riboflavin deficiecy for which the erythrocyte is a sensitive indicator, has been associated with cataracts in animals. Red-cell studies were carried out in 22 patients, aged under 50, with cataracts. Heterozygosity for galactokinase deficiency was detected in 5 patients, for galactose-uridyl transferase in 2, and evidence of an erythrocytic deficiency of riboflavin in 8. Even when Black subjects were excluded from analysis because of their high incidence of polymorphism for galactokinase, these findings are significantly different from those expected from population surveys and suggest that many patients with presenile cataracts have a biochemical abnormality which can be detected by examination of red blood-cells and which may be corrected by dietary restrictions or supplements. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/74533/
Abstract: Approximately 20 g/day of concentrated dietary fibre from carrot, cabbage, apple, bran, and guar gum was added to the controlled basal diet of nineteen healthy volunteers. Faecal weight increased by 12% on bran, 69% on cabbage, 59% on carrot, 40% on apple, and 20% on guar gum. These changes in faecal weight were correlated with an increased intake of pentose-containing polysaccharides from the fibre. On the basal diet there were pronounced individual differences in faecal weight, and from these the response of subjects to the fibre preparations could be predicted. Addition of fibre shortened mean transit-time through the gut and significantly diluted an inert marker in the faeces. Diet-induced changes in colonic function may explain international differences in the prevalence of colonic disease, whilst personal variation in the response to dietary fibre may determine individual susceptibility to large-bowel disease within a community. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/74660/
Abstract: 31 patients with a diastolic blood-pressure between 95 and 109 mm Hg have been treated for two years with a regimen involving a moderate restriction of salt in the diet. The results are compared with those in a control group and in a drug-treated group. Salt restriction has reduced the diastolic blood-pressure by 7.3+/-1.6 mm Hg, a result similar to that in patients treated with antihypertensive drugs. In the untreated group the diastolic blood-pressure rose by 1.8+/-1.1 mm Hg. Most patients did not achieve the desired amount of salt restriction and a stricter adherence to the diet might have caused further falls in blood-pressure. Excessive salt intake is probably a major cause of the epidemic of hypertension in "civilised" countries and a reduction in salt intake may help to control the epidemic. In persons with a diastolic blood-pressure between 90 and 105 mm Hg salt restriction should be tried before drugs. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/74985/
Abstract: The nutritional status of 15 patients suffering from unresectable carcinoma of the midthoracic esophagus was evaluated before and after palliative pulsion intubation. All patients showed evidence of protein-calorie malnutrition, prior to intubation. Oral alimentation using a formulated hospital ward diet with an elemental dietary supplement reversed the nutritional deficit. A mean daily positive nitrogen balance of seven grams was achieved three weeks following intubation. No episode of tube blockage was observed and the elemental diet supplement was well tolerated. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/74661/
Abstract: The association of primary biliary cirrhosis and coeliac disease, not previously reported, was observed in 4 patients. In each case, the two conditions were diagnosed simultaneously, and although symptoms were due to coeliac disease, initial investigation drew attention to the liver condition. All the patients responded to a gluten-free diet and remain well 2 years later. Primary biliary cirrhosis remains asymptomatic in 3 patients, but pruritus has developed in the 4th. The significance of this association is unclear and may merit formal study. Coeliac disease should be considered as a possible cause of unexplained weight loss in primary biliary cirrhosis. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/74851/
Abstract: Kepone is a persistent chlorinated hydrocarbon pesticide which is no longer manufactured in the U.S.A., its uses having been cancelled on April 11, 1977; previous food uses included control of the banana root borer, and non-food uses included control of tobacco wireworm, ants, and cockroaches. An adduct of Kepone, Kelevan, is now distributed by Spiess and Sohn, Chemische Fabrik, Germany, with an as yet unknown manufacturer, for control of the Colorado potato beetle in Eastern Europe and Ireland, and for control of the banana root borer in the cameroons, Caribbean, and South America. Kepone is acutely toxic and induces cumulative and delayed toxicity, neurotoxicity, and reproductive impairment, in a wide range of species including birds, rodents and humans; it is also carcinogenic in rodents. Extensive environmental dispersion, with major evidence of aquatic toxicity has been demonstrated following its recent manufacture in Hopewell, Virginia, U.S.A. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/75340/
Abstract: Three women weighing 137, 133, and 135 kg underwent truncal vagotomy; after 16, 20, and 24 weeks they had lost 10, 17, and 19 kg respectively without serious side-effects. No dietary restrictions have been imposed, but they are eating less than they were preoperatively and report a total lack of hunger. Truncal vagotomy may be a useful treatment for severe obesity. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/75338/
Abstract: Cow's milk allergy was diagnosed in 79 patients, all of whom had signs and symptoms of allergies other than milk intolerance. In addition to difficulties with infant feeding and diarrhoea, clinical features included constipation, vomiting, intestinal colic, growth retardation, and psychological disturbance, as well as eczema and asthma. All were reversible after milk withdrawal, which suggests that the allergic basis of such symptoms may have been underestimated. In most cases, one or both parents were atopic and the child had been bottle-fed from birth. There were no breast-fed children of non-atopic parents in this series. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/75438/
Abstract: 20 out of 36 children (aged two to eight years) with atopic eczema completed a twelve-week, double-blind, controlled, crossover trial of an egg and cows' milk exclusion diet. During the first and third four-week periods, patients on an egg and cows' milk exclusion diet received a soya-based milk substitute (trial period) or an egg and cows' milk preparation (control period). Response was assessed in terms of eczema activity, number of areas affected, pruritus, sleeplessness, and antihistamine usage while on the two diets. During the middle period patients resumed their normal diet to minimise any carry-over effect. 14 patients responded more favourably to the antigen-avoidance diet than to the control diet, whereas only 1 responded more favourably to the control diet than the trial diet. Patients experienced more benefit during the first diet period than the second, whatever the nature of the diet. There was no correlation between a positive prick test to egg and cows' milk antigen and response to the trial diet. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/90412/
Abstract: The authors report of the successful demonstration of a synchronized slide audiotape series on the subject of caries prophylaxis to 200 pupils from the forms 7-9. One month after the presentation of the synchronized slide audiotape series, the authors stated a positive change (as compared to the initial situation) in the children's health-related behaviour. The comparison of the results from quizzes after the demonstration of this series and after a simple verbal instruction, respectively, proved the superiority of the audiovisual instruction. It is pointed to various possibilities of using this synchronized slide audiotape series. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/90687/
Abstract: Nutritional deficits and their correction were studied in 45 cancer patients (age range, 60--86 years) who were undergoing various modalities of cancer therapy. Their nutritional status was maintained with a variety of commercially available special diets, and serum albumin concentrations were sequentially determined in order to gauge the efficacy of the nutritional support. Serum albumin levels were preserved when nutritional support was employed in surgical therapy. However, patients undergoing palliative chemotherapy or radiotherapy responded only to adequate levels of the standard hospital diet with or without supplements of special enteral diets. In the survivors, albumin levels were maintained; in the nonsurvivors, albumin levels decreased. This group of older patients tolerated nutritional support therapy, especially when it was carefully monitored. Satisfactory nutritional therapy can be achieved by use of appropriate enteral formulas. The method lends itself to adequate management in the outpatient or nursing-home situation during certain phases of cancer. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/90611/
Abstract: A study on the general population from both cadmium-polluted and control areas and on cadmium alloy workers indicates that beta 2-MG in urine is very closely correlated with aging, but it indicates an association with cadmium exposure. However, the age factor is stronger than cadmium exposre in both polluted and control areas among persons without clinical proteinuria. On the other hand, cadmium exposure is most likely correlated with beta 2-MG even in nonpolluted areas. Thus it seems that there is no noneffect level of cadmium dose in affecting the elevation of beta 2-MG in urine. beta 2-MG in serum indicated a very close correlation with cadmium in blood among cadmium alloy workers. This may suggest that an increase of beta 2-MG in both blood and urine in an early stage of cadmium exposure is caused by the increased level of beta 2-MG in blood, which may be a result of stimulation due to cadmium, but not necessarily by the clinical dysfunction of reabsorption of beta 2-MG in the renal. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/90528/
Abstract: A delipidation procedure based on treatment with charcoal at pH 3 has been applied to highly purified rat alpha 1-foetoprotein preparations. The oestrogen binding properties of the delipidated proteins have been studied with an equilibrium dialysis technique, and compared with the properties of the untreated foetal protein, as well as those of preparations reconstituted from the defatted alpha 1-foetoprotein and the removed lipids. An important increase has been evidenced for the binding levels of oestrone, oestradiol-17 beta and diethylstilboestrol by the delipidated alpha 1-foetoprotein. A reversal of this effect has been obtained by incubating the delipidated protein either with the lipids extracted from the purified alpha 1-foetoprotein or with a potent competitor of the rat alpha 1-foetoprotein-oestrogen interaction, designated as 'L', previously demonstrated and isolated from whole rat sera, and tentatively characterized as a mixture of fatty acids. Scatchard analysis of the oestrone and oestradiol-17 beta binding parameters show that the enhanced fixation of the hormones after defatting is primarily due to a two-fold increase of the apparent number of binding sites/mol alpha 1-foetoprotein. The results are interpreted in terms of the probable, at least partial, identity between the lipids closely associated with the pure alpha 1-foetoprotein and the fatty acid mixture 'L' isolated from whole sera. The possible biological role of complex interplay between oestrophilic alpha 1-foetoproteins, phenolsteroids and fatty acids in the control of oestrogen levels during development is discussed briefly. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/90632/
Abstract: Two hundred patients with obstructing esophagogastric malignancy were treated with positioning of a plastic prosthesis. With the aid of a small caliber fiberendoscope and a pusher tube, the prosthesis was positioned under continuous visual control, using only local anesthesia. Seventy-seven patients had esophageal carcinoma, 25 had pulmonary carcinoma obstructing the esophagus, and 98 had gastric carcinoma. Of the latter, 21 had extensive stomach involvement and 8 had local tumor recurrence after esophagojejunostomy. A bronchoesophageal fistula was present in 17 patients. Complications were bleeding (3), perforation (16) with only one death, and obstruction either due to food impaction (13), tumor overgrowth (17), or reflux esophagitis (5); the latter two conditions were corrected by changing the tube in all cases. Tube migration occurred frequently, but could be prevented by adapting the shape of the prosthesis. The procedure was performed as ultimate palliation in patients unfit for surgical insertion and had a low mortality rate of 2%. In general, there was marked improvement in the quality of life. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/90404/
Abstract: Skeletal or cardiac muscle fibers can be separated by brief (3--5 second) dissociation of formalin-fixed pieces with a Willems Polytron (Brinkmann Instrument Co.). Such separated fibers are useful for demonstration of abnormal accumulations of lipids, carbohydrates, proteins and minerals in metabolic diseases. Staining techniques for demonstration of various stored materials include: 1) toluidine blue at pH 2.8 for acid mucopolysaccharide in skeletal muscle fibers in Pompe's glycogenesis 2, 2) one-step trichrome stain for nemaline myopathy and for abnormal mitochondria in X-linked infantile cardiomyopathy, 3) periodic acid-methenamine silver stain for glycolipid-containing lysosomes in I-cell disease (mucolipidosis 2), 4) Sudan black B stain for lipid in skeletal muscle fibers in Reye's syndrome, infantile lactic acidosis, Leigh's infantile subacute necrotizing encephalopathy and Jansky-Bielschowsky late infantile ceroid lipofuscinosis, 5) iron stain for iron in cardiac and skeletal muscle fibers in thalassemia with advanced hemosiderosis, and 6) autofluorescence for "ceroid" in skeletal muscle fibers in Jansky-Bielschowsky disease. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/90738/
Abstract: Preliminary results are presented after measuring Pregnancy alpha 2 glycoprotein (P.A.G.) in a series of healthy males and those with cancer of the prostate, some of whom were being treated with oestrogens. Serum P.A.G. levels were measured in 21 patients with cancer of the prostate to observe any changes occurring during treatment with oestrogens. There was no significant difference between the P.A.G levels in healthy males and those with untreated prostatic cancer. Treatment however causes increased P.A.G. levels with wide individual variations. There is no apparent relationship between P.A.G. levels and the tumor stage, or efficacy of treatment. A relationship does exist however between the curves of serum P.A.G. levels in pregnant women and patients with prostatic cancer treated with oestrogens. Until proved otherwise, these measurements are of no practical value in patients with prostatic cancer, and future confirmation of these results by the study of a larger number of cases would be of value only in that they avoid other teams from repeating the same investigations. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/90760/
Abstract: Two men aged 48 and 35 years with severe hypertriglyceridaemia, glucose intolerance, and a secondary anaemia had more apolipoprotein C-III-2 and less apo C-III-1 on their triglyceride-rich lipoproteins (d less than 1.006) than did types IV or V lipaemic controls. Although the patients' abnormal lipoproteins seemed to produce normal activation of lipoprotein lipase, they did not serve as an efficient substrate for purified lipoprotein lipase. Adipose tissue of case 1 had considerable lipoprotein-lipase activity and the hypertriglyceridaemia responded to dietary therapy (carbohydrate 180 g, fat 80 g, protein 60 g per day, and no alcohol). The haemolytic anaemia improved, but the patient remained glucose intolerant. The abnormal content of apo C-III-2 on the triglyceride-rich lipoproteins, rendering them resistant to clearance by lipoprotein lipase, is believed to have contributed to the patients' severe hypertriglyceridaemia. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/90814/
Abstract: Aerobic cultures of 207 samples of drip breast-milk from seventy mothers in hospital showed that 6 (3%) were sterile and 170 (82%) contained only the commensal organisms coagulase-negative staphylococci and Streptococcus viridans. 25 (15%) grew potential pathogens--Staphylococcus aureus in 13 (6%); enterobacteria in 15 (7%); and group-B streptococci in 3 (2%). It is proposed that milk with commensals in any numbers may be considered for use unheated but not milk containing any potential pathogens. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/90870/
Abstract: It has been suggested that high fat, high cholesterol, and low fibre intakes play a role in the causation of colon cancer, but since they are highly intercorrelated, it is difficult to determine which (if any) variable is truly related to colon cancer. Food disappearance data for 1954--65 and mortality data for 1967--73 from 20 industrialised countries were used to assess which variables are independently related to colon cancer. Simple correlation analysis indicated that intake of total fat, saturated fat, monounsaturated fat, cholesterol, and fibres are each highly correlated with mortality-rate for colon cancer. The partial correlation of dietary cholesterol with colon cancer remains highly significant when fat or fibre is controlled. However, the partial correlations of fat or of fibre iwth colon cancer are no longer significant when cholesterol is controlled. Cross-classification showed a highly signficant main effect for cholesterol, but nor for fat or fibre. The findings support the possibility of a causal relationship between cholesterol intake and colon cancer. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/90968/
Abstract: Eight autistic patients with steatorrhoea, hypocalciuria, and alleged behavioural improvements on gluten restriction, were fed ordinary diets plus 20 g gluten/day for 4 weeks. None of the patients had any significant change in body-weight or bowel habit as a result of gluten challenge, nor were any histological abnormalities detected on jejunal biopsy. The data suggest that the steatorrhoea and hypocalciuria seen in some autistic subjects cannot be accounted for by the presence of coeliac disease. Furthermore, these patients should not be confined to gluten-free diets, unless rigorous behavioural studies demonstrate a statistically significant improvement in behaviour as a result of the diet, or deterioration during challenge. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/99826/
Abstract: Lymphocytes from 10 marasmic and underweight infants with prolonged diarrhoea responded normally to phytohaemagglutinin stimulation. There was no gross deficiency in the total number of lymphocytes, serum immunoglobulins, or serum C3. Defective cellular immunity does not appear to play a major role in the pathogenesis of diarrhoea in these children. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/100009/
Abstract: A method of formulating total parenteral nutrient (TPN) solutions to meet specific patient requirements is discussed. A series of calculations is presented which results in a specific formula that provides the required nutrients. The input data for the calculations are the patient's 24-hour requirements for protein, calories and electrolytes. To serve as a starting guideline, baseline nutrient requirements for patients of different weights are provided. Although individualizing TPN solutions may increase the pharmacy workload, such a program can assure that patients receive optimal nutritional support. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/99889/
Abstract: Whole saliva protein as well as the separated protein components were estimated in normal and malnourished Egyptian infants and young children. In normal, 8 protein components (Albumin, alpha1-antitrypsin, haptoglobin, beta2-lipoprotein, transferrin, IgA, IgM and IgG) were detected, while in PCM cases two more components (prealbumin and alpha2-macroglobulin) were found. The results also showed that the level of salivary protein components are markedly increased in edematous cases. In non-edeomatous ones, the level of these constituents are slightly increased in 3rd marasmus, but diminished in 2nd grade. It is concluded that the elevation of protein components in saliva of edematous cases could be a result of severe glandular tissue involvement as compared to controls and non-edematous cases. The value of IgA immunoglobulin as specific antibody originated from blood plasma and/or salivary glands may be used to reflect the extent of tissue affection in salivary glands of malnourished cases. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/99971/
Abstract: Wernicke's encephalopathy documented by characteristic involvement of the mammillary bodies developed in a premature infant during parenteral nutrition. This case illustrates the need for thiamine supplementation in seriously ill patients with inadequate intake of the vitamin. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/100008/
Abstract: The physiologic importance of trace element supplementation to total parenteral nutrition solutions is discussed. The trace elements discussed are copper, zinc, manganese and iodide. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/100032/
Abstract: A 44-year-old woman with diarrhea, weight loss, and a small-bowel biopsy consistent with adult celiac disease failed to improve on a gluten-free diet. Despite in-hospital supervision at two university medical centers and addition of corticosteroid therapy, diarrhea and wegith loss continued, resulting in life-threatening nutritional depletion. She was transferred to the University of Chicago and made full nutritional recovery with total parenteral nutrition. Exploratory laparotomy showed no abnormality except the flat intestinal mucosal lesion. Diarrhea recurred when a gluten-free diet was resumed. When the patient ate egg, chicken, or tuna alone, severe diarrhea, hypotension, cyanosis, and shock occurred. When these foods--along with gluten--were eliminated from the diet, the patient returned to oral nutrition and made a full clinical recovery. In patients with refractory sprue deletion of other dietary proteins in addition to gluten, as in the present patient, may be lifesaving. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/100038/
Abstract: Twenty years ago, we were invited to present a paper on severe protein-malnutrition in children in a meeting organized by this same Academy. In reviewing that paper for this presentation, it was very frustrating to find that the basic principles we stated there in regard to the nature of the probelm and its epidemiology are as valid today as they were 20 years ago. As most other workers in the field, we were then particularly concerned with the severe forms of protein-calorie malnutrition (PCM): kwashiorkor and marasmus. These individual cases occupied a large proportion of pediatric beds in hospitals of most developing countries, and we were interested in finding better ways to treat them. But also we were studying these cases as a basis for understanding the responsible factors better and for designing possible preventive measures. The interrelations of kwashiorkor and marasmus were recognized then, as well the fact that both protein and calories should be considered together in the epidemiology of the problem. We were also beginning to understand that the severe clinical cases that we were seeing in the hospitals were only the visible part of a much greater problem affecting the communities from which these children came. With the knowledge then available on the epidemiology of PCM, we were also starting to explore some specific measures for its prevention. I would like now to review what progress we have made, if any, in the understanding of the nature and magnitude of the problem, its epidemiology, and in designing preventive measures. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/100367/
Abstract: We have studied 5 infants with persistent severe diarrhea from birth and marked abnormalities of absorption associated with failure to thrive leading to death in 4 infants. Three had siblings who died and a sibling of a 4th is ill at present, all with a similar illness; 2 were the products of consanguinous marriages. Exhaustive investigation failed to identify a recognized disease entity in any patient. Steatorrhea, sugar malabsorption, dehydration, and acidosis were severe in all patients, whatever the diet fed. Total parenteral nutrition was used, but excessive stool water and electrolyte losses persisted even when nothing was fed by mouth. There was no evidence of a hematological or consistent immunological defect in any infant and no abnormalities of intestinal hormones were noted. In the duodenal mucosa of all infants we saw similar abnormalities characterized by villus atrophy, crypt hypoplasia without an increase in mitoses or inflammatory cell infiltrate in the lamina propria and in villus enterocytes absence of a brush border, increase in lysosome-like inclusions, and autophagocytosis. In 3 infants studied by marker perfusion of the proximal jejunum we found abnormal glucose absorption and a blunted response of Na+ absorption to actively transported nonelectrolytes; in 2 there was net secretion of Na+ and H2O in the basal state. Our patients evidently suffered from a congenital enteropathy which caused profound defects in their capacity to assimilate nutrients. The similar structural lesion seen in the small intestinal epithelium of all of our cases undoubtedly contributed to their compromised intestinal function, but the pathogenesis of this disorder, if indeed it is a single disease, remains obscure. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/105670/
Abstract: Somatomedin activity was assayed in the plasma of children suffering from protein calorie malnutrition by a bioassay using rat cartilage and expressed as sulphate uptake ratio. The sulphate uptake ratio was particularly reduced in kwashiorkor. In marasmus there was a slight reduction and the levels were still in the normal range. Plasma growth hormone (GH) levels were raised in kwashiorkor but were in the normal range in marasmus. Reduction in sulphate uptake ratio was observed only when plasma albumin levels were less than 2.5 g/100 ml (25 g/l). A rise in plasma GH was also observed but only below this threshold level. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/105631/
Abstract: Indications for the use of total parenteral nutrition (TPN) in the treatment of inflammatory bowel disease include improvement of nutrition in the pre- and postoperative periods, management of gastrointestinal fistulas and as an adjunct to medical therapy. In general, patients with Crohn's disease respond better than those with ulcerative colitis. TPN is supportive and does not lead to a long-lasting cure in most cases. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/105671/
Abstract: Two children with food allergy could not be successfully managed on dietary restriction alone. There was a good response to treatment with oral sodium cromoglycate but none to placebo treatment. The use of sodium cromoglycate in the management of food allergy should be studied further. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/105660/
Abstract: The emergency treatment of an oesophageal burn consist of: -- avoidance of a certain number of measures which may be considered to be dangerous or useless: gastric lavage, emetic agents, neutralising agents or oesophageal antacids; -- the treatment of shock and of oesophageal and gastric complications, in cases of massive ingestion in which the prognosis may be improved only by active, thorough and prolonged intensive therapy; -- attempting to prevent the development of subsequent stenosis following massive ingestions. The majority of authors are in agreement concerning the usefulness of early assessment by oesophagoscopy. There exists a certain amount of discord concerning the use of a calibrating oesophageal tube and the usefulness of corticosteroid therapy. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/105637/
Abstract: A case of essential fatty acid deficiency (EFAD) associated with fat-free total parenteral nutrition (TPN) therapy in a 53-year-old white male is reported. The patient's tube feedings (Sustacal) were discontinued and a fat-free TPN solution of 25% dextrose injection, 4.25% amino acid injection (Freamine II) and appropriate electrolytes, vitamins and minerals was started when an upper GI study showed complete obstruction of his esophageal-colonic anastomosis. After nearly 1.5 months of fat-free TPN therapy, a diffuse scaly rash appeared on the patient's elbows, groin, arms and legs, and plasma fatty acid analysis showed a gross fatty acid deficiency. One liter of 10% soybean oil emulsion (Intralipid) then was added to 3 liters of TPN daily; linoleic acid accounted for 12% of the total calories of this solution. After 14 days of Intralipid therapy, the patient's skin lesions had cleared and plasma fatty acids had returned to normal. The patient was discharged on tube feedings of Sustacal providing sufficient linoleic acid (8.4% of calories) to prevent recurrence of EFAD. The pathophysiology, diagnosis and treatment of EFAD, and the role of linoleic acid in the disease are reviewed. TPN protocols should include recommendations for administration of linoleic acid to all patients receiving continuous infusion of fat-free TPN. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/105776/
Abstract: All well-controlled trials of cholesterol-reducing diets and drugs have failed to reduce coronary (CHD) mortality and morbidity. Nevertheless, commercial, professional, and even government-sponsored propaganda continues. Experimentally some vegetable oils and hardened fats can be more damaging to arteries than butter. There are other hazards to heart muscle from vegetable oils. Israelis consume a high polyunsaturated fat diet equal to that recommended for prevention of CHD in USA but their CHD incidence is very high. Urban Bedouins are also affected. The primary clofibrate prevention trial underlines unacceptable risks which could apply also to diets. Official medical endorsement of these cholesterol reducing measures should be withdrawn. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/105777/
Abstract: The value of early postoperative feeding with an elemental diet was assessed in 30 patients after major gastrointestinal operations. The patients were allocated at random to conventional treatment (control group) or feeding with the elemental diet (ED group). The clinical and metabolic course of the 15 patients in the ED group was significantly better than that of the controls. Patients in the ED group lost less weight and had a shorter stay in hospital. Negative nitrogen balance was more pronounced in the control group throughout the seven postoperative days. Energy intake was higher in the ED group. Provided elemental feeding is used with caution, it may be given from the first postoperative day. Patients do better metabolically and require shorter stays in hospital. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/105658/
Abstract: Severe protein-energy undernutrition is a frequent finding among chronically ill patients. Its causes are anorexia, hypermetabolism, and malabsorption. Adverse consequences include impaired cell-mediated immunity increased susceptibility to infection, poor wound healing, weakness, and death. Spontaneous oral intake is inadequate in patients with this disorder, and therapeutic maintenance or repletion alimentation is needed. Enteral hyperalimentation is the method of choice, if tolerated. A successful treatment program usually requires a small-bore, flexible nasoenteral tube, appropriate feeding solution, and constant flow delivery of nutrient. If only partial dietary requirements are tolerated enterally, peripheral intravenous nutrient solutions can often supply the deficit. Although not suitable for all patients, enteral hyperalimentation is more physiologic, safer, easier, and more economical than central venous hyperalimentation. It would be well tolerated by many patients who now receive nutritional repletion by the latter method. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/105778/
Abstract: Severe nutritional disorders, including kwashiorkor, marasmus, and rickets, were seen in four children and were due to parental food faddism, which should perhaps be regarded as a form of child abuse. All disorders were corrected with more normal diets and vitamin supplements. In view of the potentially serious consequences of restricted diets being fed to children, families at risk should be identified and acceptable nutritional advice given. When children are found to be suffering from undernutrition due to parental food faddism a court order will normally be a necessary step in providing adequate treatment and supervision. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/105809/
Abstract: Nucleolo-cytoplasmic relationships have been studied in healthy squirrel monkeys and those subjected to a known degree of protein malnutrition. In the latter group, thirty-two pregnant animals starting from 35 days of gestation and 24 young adult animals were given a diet containing 7.5% and 2.0% protein content, respectively, compared to a diet with 25% protein for the controls. The motor cortex and the cerebellum removed from neonates as well as young adult animals sacrificed after 9, 11, 13 and 15 weeks of feeding schedules were investigated. Four animals after 15 weeks of dietary protein deprivation were rehabilitated with a balanced diet over a year's period. Formaldehyde-fixed as well as fresh frozen tissues were used for the histological study and to employ histochemical techniques for the demonstration of lipids, carbohydrates, nucleic acids and enzymes of various metabolic cycles. As a result of protein malnutrition, the nucleolus in a majority of the neurons from the motor cortex and the Purkinje cells of the cerebellum undergoes a series of morphological and cytochemical transformations in response to cytoplasmic changes related to impaired protein metabolism. The greater the level of protein deprivation, the greater is the degree of cytoplasmic chromatolysis and more pronounced are the nucleolar transformation in terms of enlarged size, secretory activity and transfer of nucleolar material in the cytoplasm. The nucleolar buds located close to the periphery of the nuclear membrane and the nucleolar material in the cytoplasm show identical cytochemical nature except for the presence of DNA in the former. It appears that during migration through the nuclear membrane the nucleolar material loses its DNA component and only aggregates of ribosomes and protein pass into cytoplasm, which aid in the synthesis of specific proteins lost as a result of catabolic processes initiated by protein malnutrition. Most of the observed changes in the adult squirrel monkeys are reversed when they are rehabilitated with a balanced diet. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/105978/
Abstract: A malnourished M. Crohn-patient developed severe symptoms similar to those of an acute polyneuropathy associated with a period of marked decrease of serum phosphate concentration during intravenous high-caloric infusions. After the serum phosphate concentration was normalized recovery from all neurologic symptoms followed within a few days. Based on this observation the possible consequences of severe hypophosphatemia are discussed. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/105908/
Abstract: Seventeen obese patients were submitted to 1 week's severe then 3 months moderate dietary restriction. The glycaemic and insulinaemic response to oral glucose was measured at baseline, after 1 week and at 3 months, and the results related to adipocyte insulin receptors estimated from fat biopsies taken on each occasion and to the weight lost. Adipocyte insulin binding was found to be significantly inversely correlated with the insulinaemic response to oral glucose (r = -0.54, P less than 0.05), an inverse relationship maintained even after weight loss had been achieved and displayed within as well as between subjects. Variation of 125I-insulin binding to adipocytes was related to receptor number and not to receptor affinity and could not be accounted for by differences in 125I-insulin degradation. Adipose cell size did not correlate significantly either with the insulinaemic response or with cell surface receptor density. The findings suggest: (1) that a significant proportion of obese subjects are not hyperinsulinaemic and that their metabolic response to weight reduction may differ from that of those who are hyperinsulinaemic; (2) that reduced insulin binding to adipocytes in the obese reflects hyperinsulinaemia, when present, and not adiposity as such; (3) that the degree of insulinaemia is a major determinant of the cell surface receptor density. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/106000/
Abstract: 2 litres of a 40% carbohydrate combination solution consisting of glucose, fructose, xylitol and maltose in the ratio 1:1:1:1 were infused together with 1 litre of 8% amino acid solution (aminomel L 8 oKH salvia) over a period of 24 hours for 4 days to 16 patients who had undergone gastric resection by the Billroth II procedure. Since maltose is partly excreted as glucose, maltose and glucose were jointly balanced. The joint conversion was, on average, 75, the fructose conversion 97 and the xylitol conversion 94%. The mean conversion of the 4 carbohydrates was about 85% corresponding to 2800 kcal (11,720 joule) daily. The nitrogen balance showed initally a slight catabolism. The serum insulin level rose significantly and simultaneously there was inhibition of lipolysis. The metabolic state and tolerance parameters remained in the normal range. The only side-effects noted were an increasing activity of the alkaline phosphatase and a significant elevation of the gamma-GT on the 4th day. The administration of relatively large quantities of maltose and glucose in combination with fructose and xylitol does not appear to produce any notable advantages. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/105999/
Abstract: 38 adult patients of a surgical intensive care ward received differently large amounts of amino acids during the course of postoperative parenteral nutrition. The dose of amino acids was adapted to the preoperative nutritional condition of the patient. Changes in the serum levels of retinol-binding protein, prealbumin and transferrin were registered as well as changes in total protein and nitrogen balance up to a maximum of 10 postoperative days. Depending upon the amount of administered amino acids, the values for transferrin and nitrogen balance had changed more significantly than those of serum concentrations of retinol-binding protein and of prealbumin. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/106027/
Abstract: A child with glycogen synthetase deficiency has been treated for one year by more frequent feeding with a diet lower in carbohydrate and higher in protein than her previous diet. This treatment virtually abolished the overnight hyperketonaemia and daytime hyperglycaemia which occurred before treatment. On the new dietary regime the child has had no clinical symptoms of hypoglycaemia and her growth velocity has increased dramatically. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/110926/
Abstract: Low birth weight is an important predictor of neonatal mortality and morbidity. Women of low socioeconomic classes give birth to disproportionate numbers of low-birth-weight infants and eat poorer diets than those of higher classes. Although maternal weight gain in pregnancy is positively associated with birth weight, and although animal studies demonstrate the important effects of protein restricti-n on reproductive performance, the significance or lack thereof of diet in general and of protein intake in particular in pregnant women in generally well-nourished populations has not been established. The conflicting data on human pregnancy performance and diet are critically reviewed. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/110677/
Abstract: Eight elderly undernourished patients with bronchopneumonia were admitted into the clinic for treatment as well as intentive, combined parenteral-peroral nutrition. The improved protein status achieved was evidenced by a significant increase in the serum concentration of total protein, prealbumin and retinol-binding protein. There was a significant decrease of haptoglobin in all patients, measured in the upper normal range, even though it was extremely high at the onset of therapy due to the inflammatory process. These findings emphasize the influence of consequent nutritional therapy in the treatment of pneumonia, especially for elderly patients. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/110676/
Abstract: In 58 adult intensive care patients, the concentration changes of some plasma proteins and of the immunoglobulins IgA, IgG and IgM were examined postoperatively under parenteral feeding. In three groups of patients with different operations (trepanation, gastrectomy, vascular surgery), the initial and subsequent values were not the same. A comparison with simultaneous nitrogen balances showed no complete agreement. Transferrin, retinol-binding protein and prealbumin seem to be suitable parameters for the measurement of catabolism. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/110730/
Abstract: Hematogenous Candida osteomyelitis is described in a two-month-old infant, as a complication of Candida septicemia which occurred during a parenteral hyperalimentation regimen. Treatment with flucytosine led to full recovery. The scarcity of reports on hematogenous Candida osteomyelitis in infants, despite an increased incidence of Candida septicemia, and the non-specific symptomatology which the disease may assume in this age group, indicate the need for greater awareness of this complication. Flucytosine is an antifungal drug which can also be given by mouth and carries relatively low toxicity. We found flucytosine to be extremely effective in the treatment of disseminated infantile Candida osteomyelitis. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/110948/
Abstract: Specific receptors for dihydrotestosterone and estradiol-17-beta have been identified in cytosols of the human and baboon prostate. Binding of radioactive estradiol-17-beta to the 0.4 M potassium chloride extractable component of human prostate nuclei also was demonstrated. Cyproterone acetate and diethylstilbestrol, agents of known high affinity for dihydrotestosterone and estradiol-17-beta receptors, respectively, did not bind significantly to sex hormone binding globulin and, therefore, were useful as competitors in distinguishing binding of dihydrotestosterone and estradiol-17-beta to sex hormone binding globulin and to their specific receptors. Displacement of [3H]-estradiol-17-beta binding by diethylstilbestrol in cytosols of 11 needle biopsy specimens (mean equals 16.8 mg.) from prostatic cancer patients was analyzed. These preliminary data indicated a trend towards greater competition by diethylstilbestrol for high affinity binding sites in differentiated tumor specimens from men who were not receiving estrogen therapy. Objective and subjective responses to hormone therapy were recorded in these patients, whereas the disease in those men with low displacement assay values progressed. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/110678/
Abstract: Individual parenteral alimentation with infusions of combined carbohydrates and amino-acids produced no clinical side effects, however, the electrolyte, acid-base and phosphate balance had to be observed strictly. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/110952/
Abstract: Home hyperalimentation is now recognized as a technique which allows patients with severe short bowel syndrome or inflammatory bowel disease to return to a near normal life style. The success of this program is dependent on the longterm use of a catheter through which intravenous fluids are infused. In the past 20 months, we have inserted 32 catheters into 22 patients for purposes of home parenteral nutrition. In a 1 to 20-month follow-up, the average duration of catheter insertion was 6 months, the longest has been 19 months in 2 patients. One patient with superior vena cava thrombosis has had a catheter inserted via a femoral vein which has been functioning well for 5 months. Thirteen catheters have been removed: 3 for obstruction, 2 for sepsis, 1 due to breakage of the catheter, 4 for slippage (3 were pulled out by the patient, and 1 was removed because of inability to psychologically accept the presence of the catheter). The removal of 6 of these 13 catheters was necessitated by breaks in the proper techniques of catheter care, which include daily dressing changes and heparinization of the catheter at least once daily. Techniques of catheter insertion and catheter care will be presented 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/110953/
Abstract: Permanent Total Parenteral Nutrition (TPN) is a life-saving but complicated procedure which has profound effects upon the lives of patients and their families, but there is a dearth of information on the the psychosocial consequences of this unique form of therapy. The authors worked with 19 consecutive TPN patients in hospital and after discharge and observed their reactions. It was found that the earliest stages were the most difficult, with anxiety, depression, fear, and negative body image predictable and universal experiences. Major adjustment problems centered around the loss of the basic function, eating. This artificial form of feeding forced multiple alterations in the patients' life styles. Their ability to cope with this intrusive procedure was related to the level of restitution of physical health, ego strength, and the family and hospital support systems. If, in addition to being a life-sustaining procedure, TPN is to restore the psychological stability of patients, all team members must be aware of the psychosocial factors involved. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/110955/
Abstract: Experience with use of the artificial kidney in the home led to the concept of self-infusion of parenteral nutrients at home. Originally called an artificial gut, the term has been changed to home parenteral nutrition. The original method proposed for circulatory access, a side-arm on an A-V shunt, failed and forced the development of a right atrial catheter which proved to be both safe and longlasting. A safe and rapid self-mix system of nutrient preparation was developed which made the patient independent of the hospital pharmacy. A wearable infusion device proved workable but was abandoned because it was unnecessary and greatly interfered with patient rehabilitation. A portable infusion system has been developed which facilitates patient mobility during infusions as well as patient travel. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/110960/
Abstract: A computer program has been developed to allow the generation of written orders for the logical progression of enteral hyperalimentation by the technique of continuous nasogastric infusion. Data required for entry include name, age, sex, height, usual and current weights, degree of stress, and if indicated, restrictions of nitrogen, fluids, sodium and potassium. A specific formulation may be requested, or the computer will pick a single nutrient solution or combination of two solutions that will best meet the requested constraints. Output includes entered data with English and Metric interconversion, surface area, and estimates of basal energy expenditure, protein wastage, protein and caloric requirements. If requested, daily orders are written to include a reasonable progression of infusion rates and concentrations of the solutions(s). Daily values are printed for the total amounts to be infused of fluid, calories, protein, sodium, potassium, and mOsm. The programs have been demonstrated to run in either on-line or batch mode. The system is easily accessible by physician, dietician, nurse, or other interested professionals. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/110954/
Abstract: Health care professionals assume that tube feeding is an unpleasant, distressing experience for patients, which is only partially substantiated by experience. Thirty patients were interviewed via a tube feeding and hospital experience checklist (a 47-item interview schedule). Common experiences were operationally defined as those felt by at least 50%; subjectively distressful experiences were those identified by patients as causing distress. The most common and most distressful experiences of nasogastric tube feeding were: sensory irritations and sensory deprivation. The psychosensory irritation experiences were: thirst, sore nose or throat, dry mouth, runny nose, a tube in the nose, taking food through a tube, breathing through the mouth, breathing with a tube in the nose, taking food in a treatment type container, and taking food with a different texture and smell than usual. The psychosensory deprivation experiences were: an unsatisfied appetite for certain foods, deprivation of tasting, chewing, swallowing food, and drinking liquids, limited mobility, and deprivation of regular food. Except for burping, gastrointestinal symptoms were not common though they were usually distressful. This information has been used to develop teaching programs which are being tested for effectiveness in reducing distress associated with nasogastric tube feeding. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/111065/
Abstract: Detailed inquiries into the eating habits of 86 children attending schools and kindergartens was carried out and a nut-nougat cream spread was evaluated in a 14-day investigation. The selection of food for the snacks requires some correction according to these results e. g. for salt biscuits, sweets, soft drinks. 22% of the parents still compel their children to eat everything up, more than 1/3 leave the purchase of snacks to the children. The nut-nougat cream enjoys enormous popularity as a spread for bread so that even large food undertakings cannot face this development with equanimity. From the nutritional physiology aspect this product is only to be considered positively if spreading of any fat under it can be avoided -- a question of explanation and education, because only then will a superfluity of calories be prevented. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/116378/
Abstract: The weight change of 16 adult patients with cancer receiving total parenteral nutrition for an average period of 12 days was evaluated. The nitrogen to calorie ratio of the hyperalimentation fluid ranged from 1:144 to 1:235. The amount of nonprotein calories delivered was expressed as a multiple of the resting metabolic expenditure, and patients were divided according to the following different rates of calories delivered/resting metabolic expenditure into three groups: group 1, 1.11 to 1.48, mean 1.33; group 2, 1.55 to 1.76, mean 1.67, and group 3, 1.78 to 2.10, mean 1.87. The weight change in group 2 patients, +0.32 kilograms per day, was statistically different from that of group 1 patients, p less than 0.01, but not from that of group 3 patients. We conclude that the optimal hyperalimentation infusion rate to achieve weight gain in patients with cancer includes 50 nonprotein calories per kilogram per day as well as 1.5 grams of amino acids per kilogram per day with a nitrogen to calorie ratio of 1:208. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/116368/
Abstract: A middle-aged woman developed malabsorption and severe protein-calorie malnutrition after a near-total gastrectomy for a perforated gastric ulcer. A transbronchial lung biopsy showed pulmonary infection with Torulopsis glabrata. Improvement in the patient's nutritional status was followed by clearing of the pneumonia without the need for antifungal chemotherapy. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/116379/
Abstract: The external jugular vein may be used to place a right atrial catheter if the cephalic veins are not suitable for cannulation. Atrophy or sclerosis of the cephalic vein is seen in some patients with malnutrition or a malignant lesion. Some women patients also have cephalic veins of rather small caliber. In these patients, the insertion of the right atrial catheter, using the external jugular vein, may be warranted. The external jugular vein approach is recommended because of its easy accessibility and the lower risk involved than with the internal jugular or cephalic vein approach. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/116459/
Abstract: The work presents the data on the dynamics of accululation of the main classes of immunoglobulins (A, G and M) in coprofiltrates obtained from patients with alimentary toxicoinfections (bacteriologically confirmed salmonellosis and diseases of unknown etiology). The levels of immunoglobulins of all classes (mainly IgA and IgG) were shown to be elevated in the process of the disease. The dynamics of the increase in the level of IgA (both general and secretory) was supposed to indicate the formation of local immunity in the intestinal wall. The presence of serum IgA and the characteristic IgG dynamics seemed to be indicative of destructive processes occurring in the intestinal wall. Thus, the dynamics of accumulation of immunoglobulins in coprofiltrates obtained from patients with alimentary toxicoinfections reflects the main local pathological and immunological processes. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/116539/
Abstract: Human protein-energy malnutrition and zinc deficiency have common clinical features. These were related to the plasma zinc concentrations in 42 severely malnourished children. A low plasma zinc concentration was strongly associated with nutritional edema but not with the degree of edema or the plasma albumin concentration. In the absence of edema, there were significant relationships between plasma zinc concentrations and stunting, skin ulceration, and wasting. Infection was not necessarily associated with a lower zinc concentration. From these data it can be predicted that a malnourished child with edema, skin ulceration, stunting, or severe wasting, will have a low plasma zinc concentration. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/116538/
Abstract: Free amino acid levels were determined in the blood of patients undergoing parenteral alimentation. During amino acid infusions, alanine, valine, glycine, isoleucine, leucine, proline, threonine, serine, methionine, phenylalanine, and lysine levels increased. Bivariate regression analysis was then done to determine the average rise in each amino acid when 1 mmole/hr of that amino acid was infused and when 1 mmole/hr of glucose was infused. This analysis was done on both arterial plasma and arterial wh-le blood increments. The average rise in the amino acid level with 1 mmole of infusion per hour varied from 32 to 133 mumole/liter. Only alanine levels were positively correlated with glucose infusion, while the branched chain levels were all negatively correlated. In no instance could a significant positive arteriovenous difference across the forearm be correlated with the infusion of an amino acid, despite amino acid levels as much as five times normal. Methionine, proline, valine, threonine, and lysine showed the greatest rise in blood concentration per millimole of amino acid infused per hour suggesting that their degradation or use in protein synthesis was limited. While the blood concentration rise in glycine was only about half as much per millimole per hour infused as was found in the previously mentioned group of amino acids, high rates of infusion of this amino acid resulted in large increments inglycine levels. It may be desirable to reduce the amounts of these amino acids in parenteral amino acid formulations. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/116537/
Abstract: The soybean oil emulsion Intralipid was given intravenously to 12 healthy subjects for 2 hr. During the infusion an impairment of the chemotactic and random migration of leukocytes was noted. It was correlated to the dose given and to the degree of hypertriglyceridemia induced. Migration was fully restituted 22 hr after the infusion. Also when added in vitro Intralipid caused an impairment of leukocyte motility that followed a dose response pattern. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/116561/
Abstract: In a 5 year period, eight patients in whom acute acalculous cholecystitis developed during intravenous hyperalimentation are reviewed with emphasis on factors contributing to pathogenesis. Gallbladder distention, biliary stasis, and bile inspissation, thought to be important in the pathogenesis of this disease, are enhanced with the use of hyperalimentation, and this potential complication is being seen with increasing frequency in seriously ill or injured patients who are being fed parenterally. In addition to hyperalimentation, sepsis, hypotension, multiple transfusions (more than 10 units), prolonged fasting, and ventilatory support were frequent common denominators. Typical findings of pain, tenderness, and a mass in the right upper abdominal quadrant are infrequent, and the diagnosis rests on a high index of suspicion and ultrasonography. This syndrome may be preventable by the stimulation of gallbladder emptying with intermittent fat ingestion or parenteral infusion of cholecystokinin. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/116563/
Abstract: To assess the safety and cost-effectiveness of needle-catheter jejunostomy for the purpose of feeding defined formula diet, we studied 199 consecutive patients who underwent major elective and emergency abdominal operations between July 1975 and June 1978 and in whom a needle-catheter jejunostomy was inserted. The complication rate was 2.5 per cent (1 per cent major and 1.5 per cent minor) during 7,238 patient-days of catheter exposure during which over 6 million calories were administered. There were no catheter-related deaths, bowel obstructions, bowel perforations, or intraperitoneal administration of feeding formula. The presence of a route of intestinal access and the use of defined formula diet in 111 patients who were unable to eat for over 10 days postoperatively resulted in a gross cost savings of almost $50,000 and a net savings of almost $33,000 by avoiding the necessity for central total parenteral nutrition. We belive the technique of needle-catheter jejunostomy is both safe and cost-effective in the administration of defined formula diet in the postoperative period, and we suggest that other surgeons gain experience with the technique to define its role in their own therapeutic armamentarium. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/116569/
Abstract: An adult male developed shock some hours after the start of intravenous alimentation. The caval catheter, which had been inserted through the right subclavian vein, was later radiographically demonstrated to be in the pericardial sac. We reviewed the literature on this and other complications of caval catheters. From this information and our own experience we offer some suggestions for prevention and management of some of the complications of caval catheters. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/116606/
Abstract: Chylous ascites may follow operative injury to retroperitoneal lymphatics. When possible, early reoperation has been advised. This report describes a patient with chylous ascites following emergency abdominal aortic aneurysmectomy. Because the patient was not a candidate for reoperation, total parenteral hyperalimentation was employed in management. This approach resulted in a successful outcome. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/116604/
Abstract: The protein-sparing effects of the peripheral infusion of crystalline amino acids (PAA) was studied metabolically in selected surgical patients subjected to various degrees of stress. Twenty-one patients (sixteen cancer patients receiving chemotherapy and/or radiotherapy, three with major abdominal traumatic injuries and four with paralytic ileus) were infused with 2 1/24 hours of a solution of 4.2% Travasol amino acids with only 5% glucose as a source of nonprotein calories. One-half of the cancer patients were also allowed ad libitum oral intake of a regular hospital diet or Vivonex-HN. The nutritional status was evaluated by measuring changes in body weight, serum albumin levels and nitrogen balance. Body weight decreased in only the trauma patients. When these solutions were the sole source of nutrients all patients were in negative nitrogen balance and had significant decreases in their serum albumin levels. Serum albumin levels were preserved only when extra sources of calories were provided. The infusion of the crystalline amino acids without adequate levels of nonprotein energy did not conserve protein in these stressed patients. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/116605/
Abstract: Proline metabolism was prospectively evaluated in patients with surgical sepsis, cirrhosis, and elective surgical procedures. Significant correlations were found in the septic patients. Proline levels were an excellent indicator of mortality and correlated positively with lactate levels. Lactate and proline were inversely related to total peripheral resistance and oxygen consumption. In septic patients who expired: the metabolites involved in the hepatic pathways of proline degradation were elevated in proportion to proline; lactate, glutamate and proline were directly related to pyruvate; lactate/pyruvate ratios were constant; proline, glutamate, ammonia, ornithine, lactate and pyruvate levels were inversely proportional to oxygen consumption and total peripheral resistance. The primary defects in sepsis seem to be metabolic; there are very strong correlations in time between physiology and metabolism; the metabolic abnormality seems to be a progressive energy-fuel deficit, possibly from a progressive inhibition of substrate entry into the Krebs cycle. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/121164/
Abstract: The lipid composition of bile obtained from the gallbladder and from the liver of tupaias was determined. Compared to the gallbladder bile of man, the gallbladder bile of tupaias contains the same percentage of phospholipids (PL), one third of the cholesterol (CH), and 50% more total bile acids (TBA). The lithogenic index (LI) of the bile is about 0.2--0.3. No significant sex differences or diurnal variations are found in the composition of bile. The concentration of PL, CH, and TBA is found 5 to 8 times higher in the gallbladder bile than in the liver bile. The bile acid spectrum in tupaias equals that in man qualitatively and is similar quantitatively. In a feeding experiment, the influences of butter, cholesterol, butter plus cholesterol and sucrose on bile composition, clinicochemical serum values, and liver and gallbladder histology were studied. Groups of six animals each were fed the different diets over a 10-week period. In group A: 20% butter added to the standard diet, PL content was higher, the LI was unchanged. In group B: 2% cholesterol added to the standard diet, the CH value and the LI were elevated, CH crystals but no stones were found. In group C: 2% cholesterol and 20% butter in the standard diet, stone formation was observed. PL and CH values were higher than in group A and B, TBA values were lower. In group D: 50% sucrose added to the standard diet very low PL and TBA values were determined in the liver bile, resulting in elevated LIs. It is concluded that all three components of a diet, which had proven lithogenic in a preceding experiment (Schwaier, 1979a), contribute to gallstone formation. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/121069/
Abstract: A method has been developed for the detection of staphylococcal enterotoxin A in the boiled rice extract. The procedure utilized was the batch adsorption of enterotoxin from the cell-free culture supernatant by CG-50 ion exchange resin at pH 5.6. The enterotoxin was eluted by various concentrations of elution solution with different pH values. The lyophilized eluate was dissolved in Phosphate Buffer Saline (PBS) solution and analyzed with a quantitative double diffusion method. The desorption of enterotoxin from ion exchange resin appeared to be less effective by increasing the concentration of elution solution than by elevating the pH value of elution solution. The pH below 6.2 seemed to lose the ability to elute the enterotoxin from ion exchanger but enough to elimate non-specific extra proteins. The quantitative double diffusion method was able to detect enterotoxin in food with approximation in quantitation. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/121187/
Abstract: A prospective evaluation study has been undertaken on "Caloreen", a new high energy preparation. Data were complete in 23 consecutive patients. Mean weight gain was 2.6 Kg (adults), and 2.2 Kg (children). Levels of haemoglobin and of serum albumin were. maintained (10.9-10.9 g%, and 3.4-3.6 g% respectively). Patient compliance was high. It was concluded that "Caloreen" was useful, and would given even more satisfactory results in predominantly Paediatric practices. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/121389/
Abstract: Nutrition education and consultation can and should play an important role in the recovery process of the ARU patient. The registered dietitian, as a vital member of the ARU therapeutic program, has a challenging opportunity to become non-judgmentally involved in helping the recovering alcoholic achieve a quality life of long-term sobriety. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/121227/
Abstract: The indications and effects of exchange transfusion, peritoneal dialysis, osmotic diuresis and early feeding have been studied in 28 children with inborn errors of aminoacid metabolism presenting in the neonatal period. Exchange-transfusion has only a transitory and incomplete effect but it is simple and quick. Peritoneal dialysis has a remarkable and often life-saving effect because the blood levels of toxic metabolites are reduced very effectively in organic acidaemias. However the rate of removal may decline if plasma concentrations fall below a critical level (1.2 mmol/L foor leucine). If the dialysis is prolonged for more than 36 hours it may cause hypoprotidaemia. Osmotic diuresis increases the 45 ml/min. However it is of little elimination of methylmalonic acid because the renal clearance is between 15 and 45 ml/min. However it is of little value in maple syrup urine disease, propionic acidaemia or isovaleric acidaemia because the renal clearance of the toxic metabolites is so low. The early re-introduction of low protein high calorie of a low protein and high calorie diet by continuous intragastric feeding is very important. The authors propose a protocol for the treatment of babies presenting inborn errors of aminoacid metabolism in the neonatal period. Peritoneal dialysis should be started as soon as the diagnosis is considered and continued for 24 to 36 hours. An exchange of transfusion shold be undertaken before and after the dialysis, together with an osmotic diuresis if appropriate. Continuous enteral feeding should be given, the quantity being adjusted to the baby's requirements. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/121645/
Abstract: Platelet aggregation and adhesion are commonly increased in diabetes mellitus. These abnormalities may in part be responsible for the increased incidence of vascular disease in diabetics. We have investigated the effects of diet, diet plus glibenclamide, and diet plus gliclazide on plasma glucose control and platelet function in 10 newly diagnosed maturity-onset diabetics who had not previously been treated. Before treatment, the mean postprandial plasma glucose value was 13,4 +/- 0,8 mmol/l, which fell insignificantly on dietary treatment, to 12,2 +/- 1,0 mmol/l (P greater than 0,05). Both glibenclamide and gliclazide, when added to the diet, significantly lowered mean plasma glucose values to 9,3 +/- 0,8 mmol/l and 7,8 +/- 0,8 mmol/l respectively (P less than 0,05). Platelet aggregation in response to 1 mumol adenosine diphosphate (ADP) was increased in the diet period, whereas aggregation in response to 10 mumol and 100 mumol was normal. This suggests an increased sensitivity of the platelets to ADP in diabetic patients. The addition of both glibenclamide and gliclazide reduced the magnitude of the response to within the normal range. Platelet aggregation in response to 10 mumol adrenaline and 750 micrograms/ml collagen was significantly reduced by glibenclamide (P less than 0,05). We conclude that sulphonylurea therapy appears to reduce the increased platelet aggregation which occurs in diabetics. This may play a role in the prevention of vascular disease. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/121618/
Abstract: Total parenteral nutrition (TPN) has been demonstrated to be an effective therapeutic means in improving the clinical course of the critically ill patients. Various metabolic complications are described; the cause of some of these remain unclear. The changes in some plasma enzyme indices (GOT, GPT, GIDH, LDH, HBDH, CPK, ChE, AP, gamma-GT) in two groups of critically ill patients undergoing TPN (group with more marked enzyme alterations and group with less marked alteration) were examined. Two types of alterations were found: (1) early increase of some enzymes (GOT, GPT, GIDH); (2) constant increase of plasma enzyme level during TPN (AP, gamma GT). These two evolutionary patterns were more evident in the complicated group and the enzyme changes were statistically significant for GOT and GPT (P = 0.05) and not significant for initial values of G1DH, ap and gamma-GT. Both groups presented constant elevated plasma values of LDH, HBDH, CPK and depressed constant ChE value during treatment; the difference was not significant in both groups for the same enzymes. The data were interpreted from a functional point of view; that is they were related to both the metabolic post-aggressive state and TPN. A relationship between the rate of protein catabolism and the inductive increase of some enzymes (GOT, GPT, G1DH) was found. Whereas a final induction in the energy metabolism is suggested for other enzymes (LDH, HBDH), the alteration of CPK, AP, gamma-GT and ChE was interpreted as dependent on: (1) direct muscular trauma (CPK); (2) functional increase in relation to the duration of TPN (AP and gamma-GT); (3) possible depressed malnutritive synthesis (ChE). The improvement of the enzymatic patterns with the early use of TPN and with the improvement of clinical and nutritional conditions was emphasized. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/121570/
Abstract: Taurine is an amino acid that is widely distributed in the fluids and tissues of man. In mammals, taurine is a major end-product of methionine metabolism. Taurine is found in most mammalian tissues but is only present in trace amounts in many plants. During fetal development of the brain in man and other mammals taurine is present in high concentrations and declines to lower, adult concentrations during neonatal life. However, during this time there is a net accumulation of taurine when the amount per brain rather than per gram of tissue is calculated. In man, taurine is apparently an essential nutrient, unlike in other animals which have a much greater capacity to synthesize this compound. The human infant, is particular, needs a dietary supply of taurine to synthesize the bile salt taurocholate. Thus, taurine appears to be an important component of the developing brain and must be supplied to man in the diet. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/121596/
Abstract: Before reviewing the consequences of extensive exeresis of the small intestine, the physiology of the entero-hepatic circulation of bile salts, the absorption of triglycerides and the varying sites of absorption of foodstuffs at intestinal level are discussed. It has been found that massive (i.e. at least 2/3) removal of the small intestine is incompatible with life owing to the onset of serious metabolic disturbances due to the increase in the speed of transit of foodstuffs from stomach to colon. Malabsorption of lipides causes steatorrhoea and is often associated with choleriform diarrhoea owing to the massive losses of water and electrolytes (Na, Cl, Ca, Mg). Some surgical techniques are illustrated and the local compensation mechanisms (anatomical adaptation of the intestinal mucosa, functional adaptation) designed to prolong transit time are described. Feeding must be parenteral for the first 2--3 months and oral during the alimentary adaptation phase. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/121638/
Abstract: As a result of active screening for gestational diabetes of the population attending various antenatal clinics in the Cape Peninsula, 127 patients with a repeatedly diabetic glucose tolerance test (GTT) were discovered; in many the GTT was grossly abnormal. The most useful screening factor was repeated glycosuria. Because they had booked late, 22 patients received virtually no treatment, and 1 patient aborted. Treatment of the remaining 104 patients was achieved principally by regulating diet, but when this failed metformin or glibenclamide therapy was instituted. Insulin was used when diet and oral drugs failed. Diabetic control was considered adequate if fasting blood glucose levels remained below 5,5 mmol/l and if postprandial levels were below 7 mmol/l. Most patients (67) were well controlled on a strict dietary regimen, and there were no perinatal deaths in this group. Glibenclamide and metformin, judging from this small series, appear to be safe for use in gestational diabetics. The overall perinatal mortality in treated patients was 10/1 000 as compared with an effective perinatal mortality of 145/1 000 in the 'untreated' group. Neonatal morbidity was similar to that in other reported series. Hypoglycaemia was seldom a problem and 79% of birth weights were between the 10th and the 90th percentiles. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/18034/
Abstract: While age is increasing involutiones specific to age can be proofed at the gastrointestinal tract, which lead to a deceleration but quantitative unchanged adsorption. Wrong nutrition concerning to the take up of fat, carbohydrates, proteins and trace elements can be found in greater age very often. By watching a collective of healthy persons beyond the age of 90 years however it turns out that this group keeps a nearly faultless nutrition. The requirements of lysin, methionin and calcium is a little higher in old age than in younger. By intermitting starvation or addition of antioxidants life can be prolonged in experiments on animals, when this therapy starts already in younger age. Starvation in higher age, however, leads to a shortening of life in experiments on animals. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/18079/
Abstract: Behaviour therapies using conditioning principles have been successful in the treatment of some psychopatological eating behaviours. Such have been the cases for anorexia nervosae in adolescents and adults, refusal to eat in the young child and difficulties of swallowing. Some of these cases are described. Research has been done in different countries on the applications of these methods to the treatment of obesity caused by overeating which appears very frequently in our societies. Systematic and covert desensitization and operant conditioning using positive reinforcements are more frequently used in these behaviour modification procedures than aversive methods. More recently, researches on self-control (self-reward and self-punishment) have shown it as a very efficient tool for inducing weight loss. These methods using self-control have been applied to large populations: after a first, careful examination of the patient's eating behaviour, the program of reinforcement is established. It can be partially controlled by written instructions and letters. Results are already encouraging although they need to be followed up. But more research should be done on overeating behaviours, the way they appear and are maintained and on different programs of reinforcement for weight loss. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/18086/
Abstract: A total of 191 Klebsiella pneumoniae isolates of human clinical, bovine mastitis, and a wide variety of environmental sources were tested for fecal coliform (FC) response with the membrane filtration and most probable number techniques. Twenty-seven Escherichia coli cultures of human clinical and environmental origins were also tested. Eighty-five percent (49/58) of known pathogenic K. pneumoniae were FC positive, compared with 16% (19/120) of the environmental strains. E. coli results indicated 93% (13/14) of the clinical and 85% (11/13) of the environmental strains as FC positive. There was no significant difference in the incidence of FC-positive cultures between pathogenic Klebsiella and E. coli. pH measurements of K. pneumoniae and E. coli cultures growing in m-FC broth at 44.5 degrees C revealed three distinct pH ranges correlating with colony morphology. beta-Galactosidase assays of Klebsiella and E. coli cultures at 44.5 degrees C indicated all were able to hydrolyze lactose, even if they were FC negative by the membrane filtration or most probable number techniques. The FC response pattern appears stable in K. pneumoniae. Three pathogenic cultures showed no change in FC responses after 270 generations of growth in sterile pulp mill effluent. Since K. pneumoniae is carried in the gastrointestinal tract of humans and animals and 85% of the tested pathogenic strains were FC positive, the isolation of FC-positive Klebsiella organisms from the environment would indicate their fecal or clinical origin or both. The added fact that K. pneumoniae is an opportunistic pathogen of increasing importance makes the occurrence of FC-positive environmental Klebsiella, particularly in large numbers, a potential human and animal health hazard. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/18278/
Abstract: In order to evaluate the metabolic response of nutritionally deprived cancer patients to parenteral nutrition, metabolic parameters including glucose turnover, oxidation, and Cori cycle activity were measured in eight patients before and during short-term (5 to 10 days) i.v. nutrition, with solutions containing amino acids and hypertonic glucose. Before parenteral nutrition, five patients had essentially normal glucose turnover, oxidation, and Cori cycle activity, whereas three patients had moderately increased glucose turnover and markedly increased Cori cycle activity. In response to parenteral nutrition, plasma glucose, insulin, and venous lactate concentration increased and free fatty acid decreased. The percentage of respiratory CO2 from glucose oxidation and the rate of oxidation increased. CO2 production increased, whereas O2 consumption was essentially unchanged. Respiratory quotient rose to greater than 1.0. Endogenous glucose production and high basal Cori cycle activity were decreased. Total parenteral nutrition was judged clinically beneficial in five patients, whereas one patient was unchanged. Deleterious responses, including moderate lactic acidemia, occurred in two of three patients with elevated basal Cori cycle activity. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/18493/
Abstract: Thirty-four anxious patients with gastrointestinal disorders were studied in order to evaluate the effectiveness of a new 1,5-benzodiazepine antianxiety agent (HR 376). The disorders were classified as organic or functional according to the presence or absence of radiologic signs of ulcer. Dietetic measures, gastric antacids, anticholinergic agents, and antianxiety treatment were applied for six weeks. Anxiolytic treatment consisted of 30 mg/day clobazam (HR 376) or 15 mg/day diazepam, given in a randomized, double-blind manner. Clinical follow-up was performed with the PEN Personality Inventory (PEN), Taylor Manifest Anxiety Scale (TMAS), Hamilton Anxiety Scale (HAS), and Wittenborn Psychiatric Rating Scales (WPRS). The score of the psychoticism dimension of the PEN inventory was significantly higher in organic than in functional patients. Significant differences occurred in the reduction of the rating scores of HAS and WPRS before/after treatment in the clobazam and diazepam groups. This would express a modification of state anxiety. The TMAS, which evaluates trait anxiety, disclosed statistically significant improvement in the clobazam group. This group showed an early reduction of the HAS and TMAS scores, which would suggest an early onset of action. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/18847/
Abstract: 157 old primiparae (greater than 30 a) have been compared to a randomised control group of primiparae between the 16th and 30th year of age. In addition to the perinatal infant mortality rate, the number of children with malnutrition, the frequency of premature babies, the presence of a low Apgar score (less than or equal to 7) and pathological pH-values in the umbilical artery (pH less than or equal to 7,10) were cheked. Moreover the frequency of early neonatal morbidity (presence of one of the following criteria: 1 minute Apgar score less than or equal to 7, pH of the umbilical artery less than or equal to 7, 10, a transitoric or severe RDS and neurological complications during the newborn period) was investigated in both groups. In the group of the old primiparae a significantly higher perinatal infant mortality rate was found compared to the control group (3,8% versus 0,6%, p less than 0.05). The rate of small for date babies was remarcably higher than in the control group (14,6% versus 6,4%, p less than 0.05). There was no difference in the prematurity rate in both groups. The children of old primiparae had more frequently a low Apgar score (less than or equal to 7) than infants of the randomised control group (18,5% versus 11,5%), but the difference is statistically not significant. Furthermore no difference in the number of pathological pH values in the umbilical arteries (pH less than or equal to 7, 10) were found in the both groups. The children of old primiparae show a higher early neonatal morbidity rate compared to the control group (21.7% versus 14.0%); however, the difference is statistically not significant. According to our results the risk for the newborns is increased already with primiparae over 30 rather than 35 years of age. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/18968/
Abstract: The action of lipids on haemostasis has already been shown. The authors study possible changes of haemostasis induced by the use of a substance: Trive 1000 containing 3.8 g of Soya oil and 0.3 g of Soya lecithin per 100 ml. Twenty patient received 1 litre per day over a period of ten days and were compared with 16 controls receiving glucose and amino acides without lipids. Studies of haemostasis included: overall coagulation by the thrombo-elastogram, P.R.P. (platelet rich plasma), estimation of the co-factors of the prothrombin complex, thrombin and reptilase times, platelet count, platelet stickiness using the method of HELLEM, platelet aggregation using the method of Born, plasminogen and plasmin activity by the pH STAT method, and P.D.F. levels. These examinations were carried out on the 1st, 3rd, 5th, 7th and 9th postoperative days. The results in the patients receiving Trive 1000 were as follows: no change in blood coagulation, progressive fall in platelet activity in the sense of hypoaggregability which was significant from the 5th day onwards only. There was no change in fibrinolysis. By contrast, there was anaemia, as determined on the basis of a fall in haematocrit, maximal on the 5th day and attributed by the authors to the haemolytic properties of triglycerides. In conclusion, Trive 1000 had no signifcant influence on haemostasis, apart from platelet hypoaggregability of moderate degree after prolonged treatment and perhaps haemolytic anaemia. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/19712/
Abstract: Five men with end-stage renal failure had spontaneous hypoglycemia during lengthy hospitalizations. Four were cachectic, and all five had weight loss and poor caloric intake. Malnutrition were seen also in some of the ten previous case reports of hypoglycemia in renal failure. Impaired renal gluconeogenesis may allow hypoglycemia in such patients. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/19500/
Abstract: Muscular exercise is associated with hypermetabolism and increased hypoxic ventilatory response (HVR). In order to dissociate mechanical and metabolic factors, the effect of hypermetabolism on hypoxic ventilatory response was evaluated at rest. Carbohydrate and protein feeding increases metabolic rate, and their effects on chemosensitivity, ventilation, and blood pH were evaluated in six normal subjects 2 h and 3 h after calorically equal test meals (1,000 cal). After carbohydrate, base-line oxygen consumption (Vo(2)) increased from 237+/-11.3 ml/min (SEM) to 302+/-19.4 (P < 0.001) and 303+/-18.5 (P < 0.001) at 2 h and 3 h, respectively. Hypoxic ventilatory response, measured as shape parameter A, increased from a control of 144+/-11.8 to 330+/-61.0 (P < 0.01) at 2 h and 286+/-57.0 (P < 0.05) at 3 h. These changes were associated with a mild metabolic acidosis as pH decreased from a control of 7.402+/-0.004 to 7.371+/-0.009 (P < 0.005) at 2 h and 7.377+/-0.008 (P < 0.005) at 3 h. After protein, Vo(2) increased from 241+/-6.7 to 265+/-6.2 (P < 0.02) and 270+/-5.4 (P < 0.001), an overall increase less than that which occurred after carbohydrate (P < 0.01). Hypoxic ventilatory response increased from 105+/-14.5 to 198+/-24.3 (P < 0.02) at 2 h and 219+/-17.3 (P < 0.01) at 3 h, which was not different from the increase with carbohydrate. After protein, no acidosis occurred. Thus, after protein, HVR increased despite the absence of a systemic acidosis. We conclude that both carbohydrate and protein feedings are associated with resting hypermetabolism and increased HVR compared with the fasting state. For both meals, increased metabolic rate was correlated with increased hypoxic response. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/19340/
Abstract: This paper describes the clinical management of 204 patients with Crohn's disease involving the colon who have been reviewed regularly for many years. The results have been analyzed to define the morbidity, mortality, and long term prognosis of the disorder. Despite a high morbidity, the long term prognosis is good. Although the mean interval since the onset of symptoms is more than 13 years, 77% of the patients are symptom-free and 60% have normal laboratory indices. This analysis suggests that until the etiology of Crohn's disease is established and a specific therapy is developed, good results can be obtained with regular medical review and appropriate surgical treatment with the limited use of immunosuppressive agents or total parenteral nutrition. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/19645/
Abstract: Saralasin, an angiotensin II inhibitor was infused in 10 hypertensive patients. A blood pressure reduction was achieved after stimulation of the renin-angiotensin-system by salt depletion. Heart rate and cardiac output failed to compensate for reduction of blood pressure. Thus circulatory reflex-mechanisms are inhibited by saralasin. A direct influence on baroreceptor mechanism and/or catecholamines is probable. Failure of the hypotensive effect of saralasin in salt-depleted patients after administration of beta-blockers supports this hypothesis. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/18861/
Abstract: Toxicological investivation in a fatal case of poisoning by Novo-DolestanR and DoromaR is presented with methods for identification and quantitative estimation of 2,2-diethyl-4-pentenamide especially. The findings confirm 2,2-diethyl-4-pentenamide as the main toxic agent in this case. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/19771/
Abstract: The amnesic effects of FLA-63, a potent dopamine-beta-hydroxylase (DBH) inhibitor, were investigated in a food motivated spatial discrimination task. Groups of C57BL/6J mice were injected with either 5 mg/kg, 15 mg/kg, 25 mg/kg, 35 mg/kg or physiological saline 4 hr prior to training. Amnesia was observed 24 hr following training at all dose levels except 5 mg/kh. The performance deficit was specific to memory of the discrimination and not the result of state-dependency. Training conditions which produce an increase in habit strength prevented the amnestic effects of FLS-63. Spontaneous recovery of memory occurred 48 hr following drug administration. Recovery from amnesia was also induced by injections of a monoamine oxidase inhibitor, pargyline, administered 2 hr prior to the retention test. These data suggest that amnesia induced by norpinephrine (NE) depletion is the result of impairment of mechanisms necessary for memory retrieval. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/19920/
Abstract: Lipase activity was recorded in gastric contents collected from healthy term and preterm neonates. In contrast to pancreatic lipase activity this lipase activity was higher at pH 5.5 than at pH 8.0 and it was more resistent to acid inactivation. Lipase activity was found in gastric contents from all infants who were regularly fed, but was not present in gastric contents from some infants when collected before regular feeding was established. During test meals lipase activity in gastric contents increased considerably in all infants studied. During such a test meal there was a progressive relative decrease in triglycerides whilst diglycerides showed a relative increase suggesting an active lipolytic process in the stomach. An assay procedure for determination of lipase activity in gastric contents is also described. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/129812/
Abstract: On the basis of 26 cases with non-operable primary or secondary neoplastic obstructions of the cardia the authors express the opinion that the best solution is the transdiaphragmatic pontage with a jejunal loop mounted in Y. Enlargement of this indication should not be made on behalf of radical or palleative resections, but on the contrary internal derivations should increase the range of surgical solutions in cancer of the cardia. Making an analysis of the major aspects (death-rate, indications and some technical details) in connection with the by-pass with a Roux loop the authors stress the benignity of this type of surgery and the chances it has to take the place of external derivations, compared with which it provides both nutritional and moral advantages. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/129424/
Abstract: In 110 children-between 0-16 years of age-, 90 children with Down-syndrome and 20 controls the following metabolic parameter were analyzed: ETK (vitamin-B1-activating coefficient), EGR (vitamin B2), P-5'-P, EGOT (vitamin B6), GOT, GPT, pH, K, Na, Ca, Cl, uric-acid (HS). Among some important correlations between the different parameters it could be demonstrated-for the first time to our knowledge-that in Mongoloids a disturbance of the vitamin-B1-metabolism exists, certified by the so-called transketolase-test. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/129891/
Abstract: The stomatological care of the disabled child is a part of the overall medical treatment. According to the primary disease, it should be integrated into the step program of systematically pursued paedodontics be means of appropriate prophylactic, therapeutic and metaphylactic measures. Close co-operation of the specialties involved is necessary, the choice of the measures to be taken depends upon the kind and the severity of the disability. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/130054/
Abstract: Using ultracentrifugation, compact bone from a growing 15 years old man was separated into three fractions with different degrees of mineralization. The finely powdered material was fractionated in a density gradient of acetone and bromoform in varying proportions. The glycosaminoglycans were isolated after papain digestion of the tissue fractions. The glycosaminoglycan elution profiles from CPC-cellulose microcolumns indicated the presence of chondroitin-4-sulphate and, possibly, minor traces of hyaluronic acid. The degree of sulphatation was the same in all three fractions, while the total amount and molecular size of the glycosaminoglycans decreased somewhat with increasing degree of mineralization. The glycosaminoglycans of the tissue fractions were also extracted with 4 M guanidinium chloride and then purified chromatographically on DEAE. Gel chromatography of the isolated material showed three different peaks, two probably representing low molecular weight proteoglycans. The proportion of intermediate molecular size material increased with increasing degree of mineralization. The results are discussed briefly in relation to the mineralization process. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/130073/
Abstract: Non-heme iron absorption from three Burmese meals was measured using the method of adding extrinsic radioiron tracer to label the non-heme iron in the whole meals. Thirty-one healthy Burmese subjects were divided into three groups, each of which was given one type of meal. The absorption of reference ferrous ascorbate was also measured in all subjects and used to calibrate the observed absorption values when comparing different groups. Non-heme iron absorption from the basal meal of rice, vegetables, and spices containing 7.6 mg of total iron was 1.4%. Addition of 40 g of fish to the basal meal increased absorption to 6.4% in men and 11.9% in women. Relative absorption from the third type of meal, consisting of different proportions of rice and vegetables and less fish, was also higher than from the basal meal. Non-heme iron absorption from a Southeast Asian diet similar to the Burmese rice and vegetable diet would be insufficient to maintain iron balance. But it is improbable that such a diet is eaten all the time. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/130472/
Abstract: The purpose of these experiments was to further elucidate the effect of the trace element, zinc, on vitamin A metabolism. Three experiments were conducted at two different locations using different sources of animals. A total of 95 rats were used; 71 specific pathogen free and 24 germfree. The results indicate that plasma vitamin A is depressed in zinc deficient animals or animals severely restricted in food and growth. Liver stores of vitamin A were adequate in both groups. Thus, the normal mechanism for maintaining plasma vitamin A appears to be altered by either zinc deficiency and/or severe food and growth restriction. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/130161/
Abstract: In a search for contact sensitivity to antioxidants we patch tested consecutive patients referred with eczematous dermatitis. Six cases of allergic contact sensitivity to nordihydroguairetic acid (NDGA) were observed. Three had been sensitized by one brand of cream containing 0.1% NDGA, in three patients the source of sensitization could not be traced. In four patients we found positive patch tests to butylated hydroxyanisole and/or to butylated hydroxytoluene. In two cases the positive patch tests were relevant, since both patients remained asymptomatic when antioxidants were avoided in food. They both had acute flares of vesicular eczema on the fingers after oral administration of small amounts. Gallate esters and Vitamin E (d,l-alpha-tocopherol) each gave one unexplained positive patch test. The present data suggest that further search for hidden sensitizers in topical medicaments and cosmetics is warranted. A declaration of all ingredients in industrial products should be placed on the label. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/130470/
Abstract: Weanling rats were fed diets with and without the addition of retinyl palmitate at 6,500 units/kg. The supplemented groups were fed either ad libitum or food was restricted daily to that amount consumed by the group of rats receiving the unsupplemented diet. After a 10 week experimental period, signs of vitamin A deficiency were observed (growth plateau, xerophthalmia) and liver values as retinol were only 1% of control values. Relative to the two control groups, vitamin A deficiency resulted in approximately 30% lower liver, 50% lower blood and 40% lower urinary ascorbic acid. Vitamin A deficiency did not appear to result in significant and direct impairment of GAG sulfate metabolism. Although the total amount of GAG in rat skin was increased, the composition of GAG fractions did not appear to be altered by vitamin A deficiency. Studies regarding the incorporation and disappearance of 35S-sulfate in vivo into GAG fractions obtained from skin indicated no serious impairment in GAG turnover with vitamin A deficiency. Twenty-four hour urine samples were also collected for estimation of 35SO4 excreted in GAG and non-GAG fractions. Likewise, little change was observed with respect to radioactivity associated with sulfate fractions excreted in urine. Although many previous studies have directly linked vitamin A with sulfation of GAG, the results reported here suggest that if there is an alteration in GAG sulfate metabolism, it is probably an indirect consequence of vitamin A status. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/130178/
Abstract: 1. The effects of drugs acting on cerebral 5-hydroxytryptaminergic mechanisms on drug-induced turning behaviour in mice with unilateral destruction of nigro-striatal dopaminergic nerve terminals have been studied. 2. Administration of L-tryptophan (400 mg/kg) or 5-hydroxytryptophan (200 mg/kg) increased brain 5-hydroxytryptamine and decreased the turning induced by both apomorphine (2 mg/kg) and amphetamine (5 mg/kg). 3. Parachlorophenylalanine (3 X 500 mg/kg) decreased brain 5-hydroxytryptamine and increased both apomorphine and amphetamine-induced circling behaviour. 4. Varying the protein content of dietary intake significantly altered brain 5-hydroxytryptamine and tryptophan levels, spontaneous locomotor activity and amphetamine-induced circling behaviour in these mice. 5. Systemic administration of methysergide (0.5-4 mg/kg), lysergic acid diethylamide (0.025-0.2 mg/kg), cyproheptadine (2.5-20 mg/kg) or clomipramine (0.6-20 mg/kg) produced no consistent effect on drug-induced turning behaviour. 6. The results suggest that circling behaviour due to striatal dopamine receptor stimulation is depressed by an elevation of brain 5-hydroxytryptamine and enhanced by a reduction in brain 5-hydroxytryptamine. 7. The possible physiological relationship between dopamine and 5-hydroxytryptamine neurones in the basal ganglia is discussed. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/130676/
Abstract: An investigation of dietary intake was performed in 37 motor-handicapped adolescents (median age = 20 years) at Ingemundskolan (an upper secondary school for physically disabled young people) in Stockholm in order to study the effects of recommendations provided six years earlier for improvement of the diet (2). The objective of the recommendations was a higher content of protein and other nutritients and a lower fat content in the diet. Iron was given daily to the students with the most severe motor handicap causing a low energy intake. The results of the follow-up study demonstrated that the measures undertaken led to a higher content of nutrients in the diet, a lower fat content and a decrease in the extra consumption of food. There were no signs of iron-deficiency anaemia in the disabled students in contrast to the 1966 study. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/131070/
Abstract: The maximal tolerable risk for mankind due to radiation and chemically induced mutations has been accepted as an increased mutation rate of 25%. A linear dose-effect relationship has been assumed and from the experimentally obtained mutation rate due to irradiation of mouse spermatogonia, the following risk factors were obtained: 1. The doubling dose for specific locus in the mouse is representative of recessive conditions. 2. The mutation rate depends on dose rate and fractionation of the irradiation. 3. The extrapolation factor for using these mammalial results in man is about 1.2. 4. The results of specific locus investigations are representative of all the mutation-types in a mouse that have been investigated. 5. Both sexes are similarly affected. On the above premises, a radiation dose of approximately 75 mrem per annum would increase the spontaneous mutation rate in man by about 9% per generation. The risk due to chemical mutagens should not exceed that due to radiation. Methods similar to those used for radiation risks are able to estimate the chemical risk to the population. The tolerable risk to the population from chemical mutagens depends partly on the radiation burden, but the extent of the chemical burden is unknown. This can only be estimated if the law provides for measurements of mutagenicity for drugs, food additives, biocydal agents and industrial chemicals. A risk analysis should be carried out for those chemo-mutagens which are essential. The chemical burden of all permitted mutagens should not exceed the spontaneous mutation rate by 10% per generation at the most. The human hereditory stock can be protected from irreparable damage only if one succeeds in establishing norms for the controlled use of chemical mutagens similar to the regulations which already exist for radiation protection. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/131055/
Abstract: The nutritional status of 80 patients with non-alcoholic chronic liver disease was assessed by determination of various nutritional parameters in body fluids. With the exception of vitamin C there was a higher incidence (40%) of fat soluble vitamin deficiency (vitamins A, E, and carotene) than of the water soluble vitamins. Less than 10% of patients showed evidence of vitamin B12, nicotinic acid, thiamin, or riboflavin deficiency, and 17% had evidence of folic acid deficiency. The presence of deficiency was not related to age of the patient or fat absorption, and an inadequate dietary intake was not a major cause of deficiency. The incidence of nutritional deficiency is less frequent in non-alcoholic as compared with alcoholic liver disease. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/131232/
Abstract: In a group of ten adult obese subjects, maintained for 15 days on a normal caloric intake and balanced diet, the activity of hexokinase (EC 2.7.1.1),6-phosphofructokinase (EC 2.7.1.11), and ATP citratelyase (EC 4.1.3.8) in the adipose tissue was significantly increased, both on a protein and on a fat cell number basis, compared to matched normal subjects. The activity of glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (EC 1.1.1.49), malate dehydrogenase (EC 1.1.1.37), and malate dehydrogenase (decarboxylating) (NADP) (EC 1.1.1.40), on the other hand, was unchanged. Since both hexokinase and 6-phosphofructokinase are rate-limiting in glycolysis, their enhanced activity would indicate the occurrence of an increased capacity to metabolize glucose and therefore to generate alpha-glycerophosphate. The elevation of ATP citrate-lyase would suggest increased lipogenesis, owing to the regulatory role that this enzyme plays in fatty acid synthesis. The normal activity of glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase and malate dehydrogenase (decarboxylating) (NADP), which supply NADPH for the reduction of acetyl-CoA to fatty acids, would suggest that the change in lipogenesis is of moderate degree, thereb) affecting only the most rate-limiting enzyme, ATP citrate-lyase. These data, on the whole, are consistent with the occurrence of enhanced triglyceride formation. Whether the enzyme changes observed are adaptive or genetic in nature remains to be clarified. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/131981/
Abstract: The three basic nutritional problems facing the world today are the over-intake of foods by individuals or population segments, nutrient deficiencies in the diet of population groups, and food shortages. In all three cases the food scientist has a role to play but it is stressed that close co-operation between the nutritionist, the agricultural scientist and the food technologist is essential. To alleviate the problem of food shortages, consideration should be given to unconventional food resources. The shortage of trained food scientists in South Africa detrimentally affects research and development and could also affect quality control. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/131970/
Abstract: The fluoride (F) concentrations in hard tissues and blood plasma were determined in biopsy and autopsy specimens from fetuses, infants, and children on varying F intake. In newborn autopsy cases specimens consisting of rib, jawbone with teeth, and blood plasma the F concentrations of bone and dentin were of the same order, those of the enamel lower. Correlations between individual F values in different tissues were all positive, highest for enamel/dentin. Low birth weight entailed only slightly reduced F contents, high water F significantly increased F contents. In the biopsy material (rib and blood plasma) the maximal rib/ash concentration was about 400 parts/10(6) F. A negative correlation between rib F and plasma F is specially commented on. The possible influence of F on bone development as expressed by blood plasma F and phosphatase activity was investigated in three groups of infants aged 2-6 months, either breast-fed or fed dry-milk formulas diluted with drinking waters of different F content. The children of these groups were calculated to ingest F in the ratio of about 1:10:50. The highest F group had higher plasma F values than the two other groups, whereas its alkaline phosphatase was significantly higher than that of the lowest F group only. The influence of disturbances in the skeletal development on F retention studied in physically handicapped children aged 4-15 years living in a city with about 1 part/10(6) F in the drinking water. The severely handicapped showed a higher urinary F excretion than the controls. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/131784/
Abstract: It has been established that sustained emotional arousal can accompany the psychosocial stimulation induced by the social interaction of members of a social group as they compete for desiderata, such as food and water. This paper reviews the evidence that this arousal of neuronendocrine response patterns can, in turn, lead to disease states and to a fatal outcome. Various experimental observations in pigs, monkeys, baboons, tree shrews, and rodents demonstrate both acute and chronic disturbances of cardiovascular function. These conditions can lead to sudden death or to sustained high blood pressure with arteriosclerotic lesions in the heart and blood vessels. It is shown that when social pressure that has been maintained for a sufficiently long period is relieved, the organism does not revert to normal. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/158576/
Abstract: We have studied the effect of general anesthetics on the kinetic properties of the mitochondrial Mg2+-dependent ATPase. The enzyme is inhibited by anesthetics (alcohols, halotane, pentrane, ketamine) at concentrations of the order of those found to affect lipid-protein interactions. The inhibition appears usually uncompetitive with respect to the substrate, ATP, with a decrease of both Vmax and KM, indicating a possible stabilization of the enzyme-substrate complex. Arrhenius plots of ATPase activity show a striking increase in activation energy below 17-20 degrees C. Anesthetics affect the temperature dependence by increasing the activation energy above the break or abolishing the break whatsoever. An exception is diethyl ether, that induces a decrease in activation energy and a shift of the break to lower temperatures. Anesthetics make the ATPase insensitive to energy transfer inhibitor, oligomycin and dicyclohexyl carbodiimide. At low anesthetic concentration the oligomycin inhibition curve is changed from sigmoidal to hyperbolic, showing a loss of cooperativity in the inhibition. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/158257/
Abstract: Supply of the organism with vitamins C, B1 and PP during various periods of the training cycle was studied in 25 top-class athletes. All of them showed a decreased supply with vitamins, specifically low levels being recorded during competitions. Recommendations are offered with respect to dosage of the vitamins and duration of their administration in order to assist in correcting vitamin deficiency revealed. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/158259/
Abstract: Forty-eight sportswomen of various qualification and 19 women not engaged in the sports were under observation. The total losses of copper and manganese excreted with feces, urine and sweat in the sportswomen under conditions of muscular training proved higher than in the untrained women. During summer the copper and manganese content in a day diet of the sportswomen corresponded to the recommended standards while during winter the copper content was below the normal. Starting the active training in the beginner sportswomen is attended by the copper and manganese accumulation in the blood cells. Meat and weat food stuffs in the Yaroslavi region are rich in copper, with vegetable products showing the highest content of manganese, and dairy products having a low content of copper and manganese. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/159180/
Abstract: A study of 44 Nigerians with heart muscle disease defined as congestive cardiac failure and cardiac enlargement of unknown cause with a presenting diastolic blood pressure of not more than 100 mm Hg has shown 20 were alcoholics. 12 of these belonged to the high socioeconomic class. 17 were thiamine deficient; 11 of these consumed alcohol excessively and 8 of the 11 belonged to the high socioeconomic class. Only 3 alcoholics were identified in 52 controls. None of the 3 patients was thiamine deficient but 10 others were. Only 1 patient with heart muscle disease had a reversible high output cardiac failure. The mean serum albumin of the patients with heart muscle disease was significantly lower than controls. There was no significant difference between the mean levels of serum potassium in the study group and controls. It is concluded that chronic alcoholism is not rare among Nigerians with heart muscle disease. Although there is no convincing evidence to show that malnutrition or thiamine deficiency could in themselves cause the chronic myocardial failure seen in heart muscle disease, they could be conditioning factors which increase the susceptibility of the heart to other injurious agents. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/158932/
Abstract: In the paper a technique of the polarization optical qualitative and quantitative detection of polyanions with N,N'-diethylpseudoisocyaninchloride in the histological section is described. It is possible to prevent depolymerisation after precipitation with potassium ferricyanide and to intensify the birefringence of the histological structures. In vitro attempts and measurements of the dispersion of the double refraction and of the dichroism indicate connections between the optical appearances, furthermore it is possible to make statements about the mechanism of the arrangement of the tissue-dye-ferricyanide-complex. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/159040/
Abstract: A review of gastroschisis treated at the Royal Alexandra Hospital for Children, Sydney, in the ten years between 1967 and 1976, was carried out. Early postoperative deaths occurred in those with poor general condition before and immediately after the operation. The presence of a gastrostomy appears to be most effective in the immediate postoperative period to assist in decreasing intraabdominal pressure. The results of three initial operative methods are discussed. The three procedures are the Gross method; prosthetic closure; and the Savage and Davey method of transverse incision and closure. The purpose of this paper is to suggest that the procedure described by Savage and Davey has been a most successful procedure in providing reliable and safe method of closure of gastroschisis, avoiding the complications and morbidity of staged closure using prosthetic material. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/159673/
Abstract: Male Wistar rats maintained on a thiamine deficient diet showed the mouse-killing response (muricide). On the 30th day of experimental feeding, the incidence of the muricide response was 78% in the thiamine deficient group. Intraperitoneal (i.p.) injection of 5-hydroxytryptophan (5-HTP) suppressed the muricide response in a dose-dependent manner. The suppressive effect of 5-HTP on the muricide response was potentiated by pretreatment with Ro4-4602. On the 20th day of experimental feeding, the incidence of the muricide response was 42.9% in the thiamine deficient group, 14.3% in the pair-fed group and 0% in the control group, respectively. The incidence increased to 92.5% in the thiamine deficient rats 24 hr after the i.p. injection of 100 mg/kg parachlorophenylalanine. The results of the present sutdy indicate that the injection of 5-HTP was effective in suppressing the muricide response induced by thiamine deficiency. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/159675/
Abstract: The present article analyzes the symptoms of essential fatty acid deficiency, both in human beings and in animals. The first part of the article describes the interrelationships between linoleic, linolenic and arachidonic acids, and how these acids affect the physiological response in experimental animals. Likewise, it discusses the effect of gradual levels of linoleic acid intake, and its use to establish quantitative requirements for essential fatty acids on the basis of biochemical parameters. It provides information also on the effect of dietary non-essential fatty acids on essential fatty acid metabolism. The second part of the article deals with the significance of essential fatty acids in human nutrition. In spite of the available information in this regard, it is suggested that further and more thorough studies be conducted. Data on human blood serum fatty acid composition are presented, which could be used as a basis for comparison when essential fatty acid deficiency is suspected. The author further indicates that there are several dietary factors that could induce essential fatty acid deficiency, or that could result in marginal states of deficiency in these nutrients. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/159772/
Abstract: This study reports the effect of a vegetarian diet and dexamethasone administration on the hormone status of healthy Caucasian men and premenopausal women. A lower nocturnal release of prolactin and testosterone occurred in men fed a vegetarian diet, while in women, dexamethasone administration decreased the nocturnal release of prolactin and caused a greater decrease of plasma dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA). These results show that diet modification can induce hormonal changes, If similar changes occur in patients with breast and/or prostatic cancer, diet modification may be of benefit in these patients with tumors known to be hormonally dependent. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/159944/
Abstract: Size of the abdominal wall defect, viscera exposed or herniated, birth weight, associated medical conditions and congenital anomalies, mode and complications of treatment, and the use of total parenteral alimentation was reviewed in 79 cases of omphalocele and 44 cases of gastroschisis treated in the past 10 yr. Sixty-seven percent of infants with omphalocele and 73% of those with gastroschisis survived. In omphalocele, the most important factors affecting mortality were the presence of other associated abnormalities and low birth weight. The size of the abdominal wall defect, the viscera herniated, and the mode of treatment did not appear to affect mortality. In gastroschisis, the size of the abdominal defect, birth weight, viscera exposed or herniated, and associated anomalies were not significant factors affecting mortality. Mortality was usually secondary to intestinal or wound complications. Statistical analysis could not prove that primary repair resulted in greater survival than the use of a silon pouch, but analysis of complications clearly indicates that the former method is preferable and that silon pouch should be reserved for cases in which primary repair is not possible. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/160170/
Abstract: A comparison was made between the results of phage and lysogenic typing of S. aureus strains isolated during several outbreaks of staphylococcal infection and S. aureus cultures isolated from the same carriers at different periods. The study of the groups of strains having the same origin showed that the differences in the number of reactions were more pronounced in lysogenic typing than in phage typing. For this reason lysogenic typing can be recommended only for the identification of those strains which cannot be identified with the use of the phages of the International Basic Set. The results of the experiments with induced phages proliferating in a restriction-defective strain indicated that restriction and modification were mainly responsible for the specificity of lytic reactions. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/180216/
Abstract: Patients with primary hypertriglyceridemia have been reported to manifest increased in vivo turnover of plasma cholesteryl esters. To ascertain if this is due to plasma lecithin:cholesterol acyltransferase (LCAT) and to explore a possible link between triglyceride and cholesteryl ester turnover, we have measured LCAT in 15 patients with Type IV, 2 with Type V, 1 with Type III, and 9 with Type II B hyperlipoproteinemia. LCAT was significantly elevated (p less than 0.001) in hypertriglyceridemic subjects, regardless of lipoprotein pattern. In the Type IV group, but not in normal subjects, LCAT correlated significantly with measures of very low-density lipoprotein (VLDL) elevation, including plasma triglycerides and particularly VLDL-unesterified cholesterol, but not with body weight or substrate high-density lipoprotein (HDL) lipid levels. On repeated determinations in individual subjects, a relationship between triglyceride fluctuations and LCAT could be demonstrated in only one subject over an extreme range of triglyceride levels. Analysis of lipoprotein lipids revealed that the ester:free cholesterol ratio in VLDL was increased in hypertriglyceridemia, but was not correlated with enzyme level. In vitro removal of endogenous VLDL or addition of VLDL from lipemic plasmas to normal plasmas was without effect on enzyme activity. Regulation of enzyme activity does not appear to be a direct function of VLDL level. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/179908/
Abstract: Hepatoma has been related to chemical, dietary, metabolic, infectious, and genetic factors. therapeutic hepatic irradiation has never been associated with hepatoma. A case of hepatocellular carcinoma is presented that occurred two decades after radiotherapy for presumed hepatic hemangioma. Radiation-related liver disease is discussed in general, with emphasis placed on radiation hepatocarcinogenesis. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/180300/
Abstract: Gustatory sweating is a reflex, localized production of sweat associated with sight, smell, or ingestion of food. It involves most commonly the area of the auriculo-temporal nerve where it produces the well known Frey's syndrome. The pathophysiology of the syndrome is described with the aid of diagrams. Anatomically related syndromes are explained, namely the chorda tympani syndrome, crocodile tears, xerophthalmia of the suprageniculate facial nerve palsy, and the partial (otogenic) Horner's syndrome. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/180283/
Abstract: Brown adipose tissue (BAT) lipogenesis (fatty acid, glycerol and CO2 synthesis) and its morphology determined by optical microscopy, were studied in guinea pigs and rats during intra-uterine life and during the suckling period. Following the receptor induction and after the commencement of the hormone sensitive adenylate-cyclase/lipase system (i.e. on the 60th day in guinea pigs, on the 20th day in rats), the fetal BAT releases fatty acids (NEFA) and is capable of allowing the non-shivering thermogenesis. When the maternal diet and, consequently, the fetal or neonatal BAT are supplied with considerable linoleic acid, NEFA contain a large proportion of essential fatty acids. In vitro, the greater the linoleic acid concentration in these NEFA, the less inhibited is the lipogenesis from (2-14C) pyruvate. Thus, in periods just preceding or succeeding birth, fatty acid and glycerol synthesis are higher when the feto-maternal and/or the milk supply are enriched in linoleic acid than when they contain a large proportion of endogenous fatty acids. Morphological studies indicate that the adipose cell evolution could be nonidentical in BAT more or less enriched in essential fatty acids. Linoleic enriched BAT (of animals born to females kept on a sunflower oil diet) seemed to be in a healthy physiological state at birth, perhaps due to rapid lipid renewal and synthesis in their membranes. The control BAT (of animals born to females kept on a lard diet) appeared loaded with fats and in a worse conservation state at the same age. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/179519/
Abstract: This study conducted on the crewmembers of Skylab 3 was designed to evaluate the endocrinological adaption resulting from extend exposure to a space flight environment by identifying changes in hormonal and associated fluid and electrolyte parameters. The three men served as their own controls and were on a constant dietary intake. Complete metabolic collections were performed beginning 21 d before the flight, continuing throughout the flight, for 18 d postflight. Changes in fluid and electrolyte balance have been correlated with weight loss, changes in the excretion of aldosterone, vasopressin, and fluid compartments. Inter-individual variability was demonstrated in most experimental indices measured; however, statistically significant patterns have emerged which include: decreases in body weight and ADH, increases in plasma renin activity, and elevations in urinary catecholamines, aldosterone and cortisol concentrations. Urinary sodium was increased in flight but potassium was only slightly changed. Total body exchangeable K was slightly decreased in all three of the crewmen. Total body water and extracellular fluid were decreased postflight in almost all cases. The measured changes are consistent with the prediction that a relative increase in thoracic blood volume upon transiton to the zero gravity environment is interpretated as a true volume expasion resulting in a net fluid loss. This, in association with other factors, ultimately results in a reduction in intravascular volume leading to an increase in renin and a secondary aldosteronism. Once these compensatory mechanisms are effective in reestablishing positive water balance, the crewemn are considered to be essentially adapted to the space environment. Although the physiological cost of this adaptation must reflect the electrolyte deficit and perhaps other factors, it is assumed that the compensated state is adequate for the demands of the environment; however, this new homeostatic set is not believed to be without physiological cost and could, except with proper precautions, reduce the functional reserve of exposed individuals. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/180059/
Abstract: 18-hydroxy 11-deoxycorticosterone (18-OH DOC), a weak mineralocorticoid, was estimated by a radioimmunoassay procedure after purification in 49 patients with hypertension and 38 normal control subjects. The sensitivity of the method was 2-4 pg; there was no detectable blank, and the precision was 9-10%. In normal subjects the absolute plasma levels were similar to those of aldosterone. ACTH administration produced a 23-fold increase, and sodium restriction resulted in a 4-fold increase (5.4+/-0.7-20.5+/-3.0 ng/dl). On the other hand, the plasma levels of 18-OH DOC declined by nearly 50% with upright posture or angiotensin II infusion. During both of these procedures, plasma aldosterone levels significantly increased. Patients with normal and low renin hypertension had similar changes in plasma 18-OH DOC levels with sodium restriction. However, the mean high sodium level in the normal renin essential hypertension group (11.6+/-1.6 ng/dl) was significantly greater (P is less than 0.001) than in the control group (5.4+/-0.7 ng/dl). In addition, at least 22% and perhaps as high as 37% of the hypertensive subjects had levels greater than the upper limits of normal on a high sodium intake. Differences between the groups were less impressive in the sodium-restricted studies. There were no significant differences in age, duration of hypertension, sodium balance, serum sodium, potassium, or blood urea nitrogen in those patients who had elevated levels of plasma 18-OH DOC. Patients with primary aldosteronism had levels within the normal range on both dietary intake. However, in contrast to the other groups there were no significant changes in the plasma levels with sodium restriction. Thus, a significant number of patients with essential hypertension presumably have an alteration in 18-OH DOC secretion. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/179950/
Abstract: The infection of HeLa 229 cells in monolayer culture with trachoma (B/TW-5/OT) and lymphogranuloma venereum (LGV) (L2/434/Bu) organism was studied in terms of two parameters: radioactivity counts of cell-associated tritium labeled organisms at the initial stage of inoculation for measurement of attachment, and inclusion counts of infection cells after incubation for measurement of growth. Factors affecting attachment and inclusion formation and correlation of the two are presented. It was shown that attachment is an important initial step in infection by Chlamydia trachomatis. The rate of attachment was temperature dependent. The attachment of LGV organisms was affected more profoundly by temperature than was that of trachoma organisms. Attachment and inclusion formation of trachoma and LGV organisms were inhibited by heparin. Diethylaminoethyl-dextran was again shown to enhance attachment and inclusion formation of trachoma but not LGV organisms. NaF had no effect on attachment, but inhibited inclusion formation of both trachoma and LGV organisms. Both attachment and inclusion formation of trachoma organisms were strongly enhanced by centrifugation of the inoculum onto the cell monolayer. Although inclusion formation of trachoma organism was much greater in susceptible cells (HeLa 229) than relatively insusceptible cells (fetal tonsil), attachment was only slightly greater. The results based on the test of two cell lines suggested that attachment prpbably is not a critical factor in determing a cell line's susceptibility to infection with trachoma organisms. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/180358/
Abstract: Insulinoma is a rare tumor, occurring more often in women and in the older age range. Eighty percent of patients have a single benign tumor, usually less than or equal to 2 cm in diameter, located with about equal frequency in body, head, or tail of the pancreas and amenable to surgical cure. About 10% have multiple tumors; in this group there is a high incidence of multiple endocrine neoplasia type I syndrome. The remaining 10% of patients have metastatic malignant insulinoma. Symptoms are intermittent, recur at irregular intervals in the food-deprived state over a median of 1 1/2 years, and arise from varying degrees of neuroglycopenia. Symptoms often lead to misdiagnosis as a neurologic or psychiatric disorder. Transient neurologic deficits and EEG abnormalities can be observed during hypoglycemia. Diagnosis requires repeated demonstration of hypoglycemia (glucose less than or equal to 40 mg/dl) during spontaneous or provoked symptoms, relief with ingestion of carbohydrates, simultaneous hyperinsulinemia (serum insulin greater than 6 muU/ml), and absence of insulin antibodies. A useful diagnostic adjunct is the intravenous tolbutamide test, for which new diagnostic criteria are presented. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/180498/
Abstract: Rabbits were immunized by repeated intravenous injections of large amounts of chylomicrons plus VLDL isolated from human lipemic plasmas. The antisera were absorbed usccessively with lipoprotein free serum, HDL and LDL2. The absorbed antisera still precipitate chylomicrons and VLDL from sera of normal and hyperlipemic subjects (post-absorptive donors and fasting patients with type IV and type V hyperlipoproteinemia). By gel diffusion methods (immunoelectrophoresis and double diffusion in two dimensions), the antisera reveal a single precipitin line which stains better for lipid than for protein. This line is pronounced in VLDL-rich sera and absent in VLDL-free sera. The antisera react with chylomicrons plus VLDL delipidated by extraction with ethanol/diethyl ether; this shows that the antigenic site is an apoprotein; in contrast to apoprotein C, this apoprotein appears to be unique to the triglyceride-rich lipoproteins. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/180406/
Abstract: A review of the enzyme deficiencies of carbohydrate metabolism known at the present time is given. Through prominent clinical symptoms and consideration of food as a pathological agent, it is possible to suspect the various diseases before the results of the biochemical determinations are available. On account of the sometimes striking course, therapy can consequently be started at the earliest possible moment. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/180373/
Abstract: Five subjects consumed a meal containing ca. 1.5 mg squalene. Postprandial serum samples showed that in three of the subjects squalene and lipid levels reached maxima at 3 hr. Squalene levels in the low density lipoproteins of these subjects also increased. The results indicate that alimentation is a major factor in the variation in serum squalene levels. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/180524/
Abstract: The plasma lipid pattern was investigated in 103 dialysis patients and 66 renal transplant patients. Only 32 percent of dialysed patients and 30 percent of transplanted patients had a normal lipid pattern. In other patients the most frequent disorder with hypertriglyceridaemia, and less frequently combined or isolated hypercholesterolaemia. Since these lipid abnormalities are known to predispose to an accelerated atherosclerosis, a dietetic therapeutic approach was tried. Fifteen transplanted patients with severe hypertriglyceridaemia were submitted to a hypocaloric (1700 kcal) and low carbohydrate (130 g) diet. During dieting the plasma lipid pattern was normalised and maintained in a normal range for the period of observation (3-12 months). 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/180693/
Abstract: The authors investigated the obesity incidence in connection with nutrition factors in 13 representative settlements of Industry-Agrarian Complex Burgas. They established that obesity covers 42,4 per cent of the population above the age of 14 and is 1,5 times more often among females as compared with males. The correlation among youths (age 14-25), mature aged subjects (26-50) and advanced aged ones (over 51) is 1:5,5:4,5. The light I and II stages prevail (88,6 per cent of all the cases) and the majority of the "pure" cases of obesity (73,6 per cent) have no complains. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/180741/
Abstract: Plasma aldosterone and 17alpha-hydroxyprogesterone (17-OHP) concentrations were measured in 35 patients with congenital adrenal hyperplasia resulting from 21-hydroxylase deficiency. Ten patients had never been treated and among them were 4 salt-losing infants. Both aldosterone and 17-OHP were high in the 6 untreated non salt-losers. The values ranged respectively from 110 to 376 pg/ml and from 150 to 292 ng/ml. Results were variable in the 4 salt-losers. Three out of 5 untreated non salt-losers who were submitted to a low sodium diet, responded by doubling their aldosterone levels. When plasma 17-OHP concentrations were less than 30 ng/ml, the mean aldosterone level in the treated non salt-losers (n=6) was 15.3 pg/ml +/- 4.3 (SE). This value was not different from the mean level found in the control children (n=7), 18.8 pg/ml +/- 3.2. In the treated salt-losers (n=9), the measured aldosterone levels were less than or equal to 10 pg/ml 7 times out of 9. When the treated patients exhibited plasma 17-OHP concentrations greater than 30 ng/ml, the salt-losers (n=11) were distinguished from the non salt-losers (n=8) in that they showed as significantly lower aldosterone mean level, 24.6 pg/ml +/- 4.3 against 69 pg/ml +/- 13.4 found in the non salt-losers. The salt-losers displayed no aldosterone increases to synthetic ACTH stimulation under treatment or at the withdrawal of treatment, while positive aldosterone responses were often observed in the non salt-losers. In the latter group, studied under different conditions (with and without therapy, on low sodium diet, after ACTH test) a significant correlation was found between aldosterone and 17-OHP levels expressed in log. values, (n=38, r=0.80, P less than 0.001). The relationship could also be established with the values obtained from all the salt-losers, but it was less significant, (n=35, r=0.46, P less than 0.02). 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/180788/
Abstract: Serum vitamin B12 concentrations were measured in 60 patients undergoing repetitive hemodialysis and in undialyzed patients with chronic renal failure. Dialysis patients had significantly lower serum vitamin B12 levels than the nondialyzed group 321 +/- SEM 38 pg/ml versus 793 +/- 100), and 19 of 60 dialysis patients had vitamin B12 Concentrations less than 200 pg/ml. Folic acid concentration was 5 times greater in dialysis than in nondialysis patients, presumably because the latter received daily supplementation with folic acid. Serum vitamin B12 concentrations fell progressively during the patient's course of dialysis. Neither inadequate dietary intake nor vitamin B12 malabsorption accounted for the differences in the serum vitamin B12 concentrations seen in the two groups. Serum vitamin B12 levels and nerve conduction velocities in 51 dialyzed patients showed a significant correlation. Six dialyzed patients with low serum vitamin B12 levels and slow nerve conduction velocities showed improvement in nerve conduction (+ 14.6 +/- 3.3 m/sec) following the parenteral use of pharmacological doses of vitamin B12. The cause of the low serum vitamin B12 concentration is not clear, nevertheless, alterations in serum vitamin B12 seen in some dialysis patients may be a factor in the persistence of abnormal nerve conduction and may be reversed with large doses of parenteral vitamin B12. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/180790/
Abstract: Interferon production by leukocytes in culture was investigated in nine severely marasmic infants and 31 well-nourished controls. The production of interferon was induced with Newcastle disease virus and assayed in Vero cells challenged with vesicular stomatitis virus. Marasmic infants produced significantly less interferon than controls. It is suggested that the finding may be the result of a lymphocyte defect induced by malnutrition and could help to explain the increased frequency and severity of viral diseases in this condition. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/180789/
Abstract: Patients with adult celiac disease excrete abnormal amounts of tryptophan metabolites after loading with this amino acid, suggesting vitamin B6 deficienty in these patients, In fact, the excretion of tryptophan metabolites returns to normal after administration of vitamin B6. The vitamin B6 nutriture was measured by means of determination of pyridoxal phosphate and activity of pyridoxalkinase in serum and in duodenal mucosa of 14 children with acute celiac disease and of six children with celiac disease in clinical and biochemical remission. Ten children with normal duodenal mucosa were studied as controls. Children with celiac disease had significantly decreased pyridoxal phosphate in serum and in duodenal mucosa when compared both with children in remission and controls. Activity of pyridoxalkinase, however, was significantly increased in serum and in duodenal mucosa when compared with controls but not when compared with children in remission. These children had the same increase in pyridoxalkinase activity as children with acute celiac disease. These data provide a strong evidence for the occurrence of vitamin B6 deficienty in children with acute celiac disease. The children with celiac disease in remission still had an increased activity of pyridoxalkinase which seems to be a compensating mechanism in consequence of vitamin B6 deficiency prior to the gluten-free diet. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/180800/
Abstract: Parasitologic, serologic, and epidemiologic studies were done during 1967 in Calion, Arkansas (population 544). Infection with Entamoeba histolytica was found to be endemic but was segregated along racial lines. Twenty-two (9.9%) black compared with only one (0.6%) white had E. histolytica demonstrated in one stool examination; only two blacks had symptoms suggestive of amebiasis. No positive amebiasis indirect hemaggulination titers were found in 135 white residents. In contrast, 41 (17.9%) blacks had positive titers. Age, sex, and geographic location were not associated with stool or seropositivity. Within the black population, clustering of stool and seropositivity occurred. Significantly higher rates of stool and seropositivity were seen in households with crowding and poor sanitation as evidenced by lack of indoor toilet facilities. The presence of contaminated water supplies did not correlate with stool or seropositivity. The probable importance of person-to-person transmission is suggested by the observed clustering of infection within households with crowding and unsanitary conditions. The absence of evidence for transmission by food or water further supports this hypothesis. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/181027/
Abstract: This work was initiated by the lack of a sensitive method for the determination of disulfiram and its metabolites in blood of patients treated with this drug. A method is described which allows the separate determination of carbon disulfide, free diethyldithiocarbamate and disulfides derived from disulfiram with adequate precision in 10 ml patient blood. It is based on a spectrophotometric determination of a yellow compound formed by trapping carbon disulfide produced from diethyldithiocarbamate and disulfiram in an ethanolic solution of diethylamine and copper(II)-acetate. Good quantitation of disulfiram and diethyldithiocarbamate in blood was achieved by trapping carbon disulfide produced when formic acid and cystein were added to the samples. During daily administration of 200 mg disulfiram to humans, concentrations of zero to 0.6 mug carbon disulfide and 0.2 to 1.0 mug diethyldithiocarbamate per ml blood were found using this method. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/180943/
Abstract: The Richner-Hanhart syndrome with tyrosinemia was recognized in a mentally retarded adolescent boy. The clinical manifestations, including hyperkeratosis of the volar aspects of the hands and feet, thickening of the conjunctival epithelium, and corneal opacities, as well as biochemical aberrations of tyrosine metabolism, responded to specific treatment with a diet low in phenylalanine and tyrosine. Light and electron microscopical studies illustrate the underlying conjunctival pathologic changes. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/181413/
Abstract: Polyunsaturated meat and dairy products were compared with their saturated counterparts to determine their usefulness in a fat-modified diet for hyperlipidemic persons and their spouses. These polyunsaturated animal products were produced by feeding cattle a supplement of oil droplets coated with denatured protein. As a result, the polyunsaturated fatty acid content was 27 to 28 per cent of the meat fat and butterfat; saturated fatty acids (C12:0 to tc16:0) were 18 to 19 per cent. Of the eleven free-living subjects three were normocholesteremic, three had type IIa hyperlipidemia and five had type VI (IIb). In the fourteen-week study, an adjustment period of three weeks was followed by two consecutive experimental periods of four weeks each, then by a three-week follow-up period. During the adjustment period, participants continued to follow their usual eating patterns. During both experimental periods all followed the same prescribed fat modified food pattern using polyunsaturated margarine and oil. Five participants ate polyunsaturated beef and dairy products during the first experimental period and their saturated counterparts in the second; six participants ate saturated products first, then polyunsaturated. During the follow-up period, all participants selected all their own food. Serum cholesterol levels in five participants who had not previously followed a fat-modified diet were reduced by 18 per cent with polyunsaturated animal products and 11 per cent with saturated products. Serum cholesterol in six participants, previously on a fat-modified diet, was not significantly changed with polyunsaturated products. In ten of eleven participants, serum cholesterol levels were an average of 6 per cent lower with polyunsaturated products than with saturated products. It is concluded that polyunsaturated animal products are suitable for use in fat-modified food patterns for reducing hyperlipidemia, with some restrictions in the amount of polyunsaturated animal fat and with the inclusion of polyunsaturated oil and margarine. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/181257/
Abstract: Mixed types of sensory and motor peripheral neuropathy and dementia occurred as neurological complications in patients with established type IV and type V hyperlipoproteinemia. These complications were remedial by control of the hyperlipoproteinemia with diet and/or clofibrate resulting in symptomatic improvement as well as restitution of nerve conduction velocities toward normal. Diabetes mellitus as well as systemic metabolic and toxic disorders which commonly produce neurological complications were excluded. Segmental demyelination with disorganization of myelin lamellae were striking morphological features found on sural nerve biopsy. Fluctuations in memory performance correlated inversely with plasma lipid levels and appear to be a characteristic feature of hyperlipidemic dementia. Hyperlipidemic neuropathy and dementia, although rare, are remediable neurological disorders which should be considered in patients with neuropathy and/or dementia of unknown origin. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/204177/
Abstract: One hundred and seven patients from the Mid-Western State of Nigeria with the tropical amblyopia syndrome are reported. Ninety-five patients (88.8%) had the amblyopia syndrome mainly; twelve patients (11.2%) had amblyopia and other manifestations of the tropical ataxic neuropathy. The young, aged 10-20 years, represented by sixty-six patients (61.8%), are predominantly affected by the uncomplicated syndrome. Thirteen patients (12.1%) showed muco-cutaneous evidence of avitaminosis. Fifty patients (46.7%) had temporal pallor of the optic discs, bilaterally, another fifty (46.7%) had normal discs, two (2.8%) showed pink discs. Generalized field constriction is the common field defect, though central or centro-caecal scotoma can occur. Red/green defect was present in seven patients. It is a disease of the poor or those living on a basic monotonous diet consisting mainly of cassava (mannihot) and its derivatives. It is a significant cause of defective vision in Mid-Western Nigeria. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/204118/
Abstract: By feeding of rabbits with cholesterol a hyperlipoproteinaemia (HLP) was created and the changes of the cholesterol and triglyceride (TGL) level were compared with the changes of the portions of the pre-beta- and beta-lipoproteins. The electrophoresis with a gel of agar-agarose are more suitable for the densitometric evaluation than electrophoresis with cellulose acetate films. Tests with Evan's blue of the angiopermeability of rabbits feeded with cholesterol showed that the permeability of the cutaneous vessels decreased strikingly during test period, while a change of the permeability of the aorta was not to be proved under the conditions of our tests. HLP patients had been treated with clofibrinic acid, nicotinic acid derivatives and metabolism basic diet for 3 years. The cholesterol and TGL values as well as the pre-beta-/beta-lipoprotein quotients have been determined before and after treatment. The pre-beta-/beta-lipoprotein quotient has proved as suitable complementary parameter for pursuit of the therapeutic result with HLP patients. The changes of the quotients corresponded well with the found changes of the HLP types. The decrease of the TGL content of HLP patients of the type IV or IIb being treated with metabolism basic diet or clofibrinic acid may be estimated (with nearly constant cholesterol level) from the per cent decrease of the pre-beta-/beta-quotient. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/203946/
Abstract: As the number of factors which affect zinc absorption and homeostasis increase, it becomes more apparent that the relative zinc status of the population cannot be estimated from the analyzed zinc content of foods. The environment of the small intestine at the time of absorption can only be estimated from the diet fed. Even then since both endogenous and exogenous factors determine the zinc absorbed, the precision of these estimations should allow for large individual variation. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/204183/
Abstract: A work site-located clinic screened 6,000 employees (91 percent participation) and identified 146 hypercholesterolemic subjects (100 percent initial participation, 12 percent subsequent dropout rate). The subjects, aged 20 to 50 years, were randomly classified into four groups: Group A, treatment in a lipid intervention clinic with diet for 6 weeks, then diet plus clofibrate for the subsequent 18 weeks; Group B, diet treatment from a clinic nutritionist with the cooperation of the subject's private physician; Group C, referral for treatment by a private physician; and Group D, no intervention. Initial mean cholesterol was 294 mg/100 ml. At 24 weeks, all intervention groups had decreases in serum cholesterol (Group A, 12 percent; Group B, 15 percent; Group C, 17 percent; P less than 0.001). The control group (D) had a small decrease in cholesterol (4 percent). Decreases in cholesterol were correlated with weight loss and decrease in fasting serum triglycerides but not with the use of clofibrate. Serum cholesterol can be reduced in healthy young adults by several practical methods. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/204262/
Abstract: Two outbreaks of Cl. perfringens food poisoning which occurred in Florence during 1976 have been described. The first one involved three hundred primary school children; processed re-heated turkey meat was thought to have been the vehicle of infection in the school meal. The clinical symptoms consisted of mild diarrhoea in all cases and the duration of the illness was about 12 hours. The possible part played by food storage temperature, post-cooking periods and food trolleys in the spread of infection is discussed. The other outbreak interested three people who ate a dish with gravy in a restaurant; one of these suffered severe haemorrhagic enteritis and died after two weeks. Necroscopy was performed and the results of post-mortem examination as well as histological and bacteriological findings certified that the cause of death was severe enteritis (Necrotizing enteritis) in elderly debilitated patient (with diabetes, chronic bronchitis, arteriosclerosis and previously gastroresected). 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/204111/
Abstract: Recent investigations on cholesterol metabolism in man have led to new insights into diseases associated with abnormal accumulations of cholesterol in plasma (hypercholesterolemia), arterial tissues (atherosclerosis) and biliary tract (gallstones). Regulation of cholesterol synthesis under the influence of dietary and plasma cholesterol, may play a crucial role in determining biliary and tissue concentrations of this sterol. Plasma concentrations, on the other hand, appear to be controlled by complex mechanisms for secretion, transformation and removal of plasma lipoproteins. The recent identification of specific cellular receptors for uptake of plasma lipoproteins represents a significant advance for the understanding of regulation of both plasma and tissue concentrations, and possibly of the basic mechanisms underlying accumulation of cholesterol in atherosclerotic plaques. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/204316/
Abstract: The response to dietary management was studied in 24 hypertriglyceridaemic out-patients. Fourteen patients were kept on a diet low in fat and cholesterol and high in polyunsaturated fatty acids; 10 of these patients subsequently followed a period of low-carbohydrate diet. At the end of the first period a significant decrease of serum triglyceride, cholesterol and beta-lipoproteins was observed; after the second feeding period no substantial change of serum lipoprotein pattern occurred. Ten patients were given a low-carbohydrate diet that produced a significant fall of the levels of triglycerides and pre-beta-lipoproteins. Six of these subjects continued the experiment with the low-fat diet; during this period a further trend toward reduction of serum triglyceride, cholesterol and beta-lipoproteins was observed which, however, was not statistically significant. We conclude that serum triglyceride levels can be lowered both by a low-carbohydrate diet and by a low-fat diet, but the latter has the advantage of also producing a significant fall of serum cholesterol and beta-lipoproteins. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/204463/
Abstract: The discovery of an association of certain primary defects in human purine metabolism with immunodeficiency disease has served to focus attention on the possible role of purine compounds in the functional activity of lymphoic cells. Considerable evidence has accumulated of the need within the intact organism for purine and pyrimidine compounds supplied by the liver as a supplementary nutritional requirement for the growth of the rapidly proliferating tissues of certain organ systems. Likewise, lymphoid cells cultured in vitro show evidence of an enhancement of indices of cellular proliferation and of antibody synthesis when exogenous adenosine is added to the medium. These functions are inhibited by high concentrations of adenosine and there is some evidence that T-cell proliferation shows a greater sensitivity to inhibition by adenosine than B-cells. These observations may be significant in relation to the known defects in human purine metabolism and their mechanism for producing immunodeficiency. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/204718/
Abstract: A sensitive and specific double antibody radio-immunoassay for the major apolipoprotein (apoB) of rhesus (Macaca mulatta) serum very low density lipoprotein (VLDL) and low density lipoprotein (LDL) is described. The anti-serum was raised to LDL (d 1.030-1.040 g/ml) and the LDL(2) (d 1.020-1.050 g/ml) was labeled with (125)I by the chloramine-T or iodine monochloride method. The assay, which was sensitive to 0.02-0.5 micro g of LDL(2), had an inter-assay coefficient of variation of 4.5%. This assay was successfully used to measure apoB in the whole serum and low density lipoproteins of control monkeys maintained on a standard Purina monkey chow (PMC) diet and of three groups of monkeys fed atherogenic diets: an "average American diet," a 25% peanut oil and 2% cholesterol-supplemented PMC diet, and a 25% coconut oil and 2% cholesterol-supplemented PMC diet. The control monkeys (n = 13) had a serum cholesterol of 146 +/- 28 mg/dl and an apoB of 50 +/- 18 mg/dl. In the monkeys maintained on the atherogenic diets the serum apoB was elevated: 103 +/- 28 mg/dl (American), 102 +/- 35 mg/dl (peanut oil), and 312 +/- 88 mg/dl (coconut oil). The values for serum total cholesterol were 333 +/- 65 mg/dl (American), 606 +/- 212 mg/dl (peanut oil), and 864 +/- 233 mg/dl (coconut oil) and were elevated relative to controls (P < 0.001). For each of the diets, total serum cholesterol correlated with serum apoB (P < 0.001). The slopes of the regression lines of serum apoB vs. cholesterol for the monkeys on the PMC, American, and coconut oil diets were similar (m = 0.531, 0.401, and 0.359, respectively), but differed from that of monkeys on the peanut oil diet (m = 0.121). The immunoreactivities of rhesus and human LDL were compared using specific antisera raised against these antigens. In homologous assay systems, monkey and human LDL exhibited unique immunological determinants. The same results were obtained with the delipidated preparations of the two LDLs using antisera raised against either monkey or human apoB. Crossover studies using a heterologous tracer with each anti-serum resulted in the selection of a specific population of antibodies directed against antigenic sites shared by these two LDL species. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/204458/
Abstract: Studies on the response of female rats to various stresses during the course of lactation showed a marked reduction in pituitary-adrenal activity. Maximum suppression coincided with the period of maximum lactation, about 14 days after parturition. Both pituitary corticotropin and the release of corticosterone were significantly reduced. Females showing maternal behaviour but not lactating did not exhibit this buffering of the stress response. Another aspect of pituitary-adrenal activity has been studied in lactating female rats. Females, although they have a buffered stress response, responded differently, in terms of pituitary-adrenal activity, to stimuli emitted by the pups: pups which are exposed to noxious stimuli elicit a much greater pituitary-adrenal response in lactating females than do pups which are merely handled. Separation from the pups does not elicit a pituitary-adrenal response. This difference in response is modified if the infants are malnourished and is not observed in virgin animals that are not lactating. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/205183/
Abstract: Three patients with metastatic breast cancer responded to diethylstilbestrol (DES) therapy, but later they developed endometrial carcinoma. Evidence is presented to support the hypothesis that endometrial carcinoma can occur in breast cancer patients receiving diethylstilbestrol therapy. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/204954/
Abstract: Plasma free tryptophan is significantly decreased in monopolar, depressed patients. No evidence was found to suggest that poor nutritional history prior to hospital admission was responsible for these low levels. Factors known to influence tryptophan-albumin binding in plasma, e.g. concentration of plasma proteins, albumin and non-esterified fatty acids, did not account for the low levels of free tryptophan in depressed patients. A significant decrease in plasma free tryptophan levels was found in perimenopausal but not in pre- or post-menopausal female controls. This mirrors the decrease in circulating oestrogens. Although exogenously administered oestrogens do not have any therapeutic efficacy in relieving mild residual depressive symptoms of lithium treated patients, they increased the levels of plasma free tryptophan. Clofibrate also displaces tryptophan from plasma protein binding sites in both depressed patients and controls. Utilization of the increased levels of plasma free tryptophan is reduced in depressed patients. A situation therefore exists in depressed patients where the plasma free tryptophan is not only reduced but also leaves the plasma less readily than in control subjects. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/205744/
Abstract: Computerized axial tomography (CAT) of the head provides the otolaryngologist with an effective diagnostic tool. This technique is particularly useful when used in the preoperative evaluation of head and neck pathology and may be used to define the extent of disease and to direct the surgical approach. The case of a 16-year-old male with an extensive angiofibroma involving the paranasal sinuses and nasopharynx is presented as an example of CAT in preoperative planning of the surgical procedure. Computerized tomography was used initially to define the tumor margins. Serial CAT scans were also obtained at intervals during the patient's preoperative estrogen therapy. Evidence was obtained which suggests CAT may be used to monitor the effects of preoperative hormone management of angiofibromas and in the definition of the optimal time for surgery. In the case presented the final CAT scan provided a detailed and accurate description of the tumor margins which were confirmed at surgery. Our experience with a case of an extensive nasopharyngeal angiofibroma demonstrates the CAT scan to be a useful objective diagnostic method for preoperative planning. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/205805/
Abstract: Cardiovascular diseases are the leading cause of death in Western countries, with an enormous increase in death rate and involvement of younger age groups during the last decades. This applies especially to coronary heart disease and is mainly caused by first-degree risk factors: hypertension, hyperlipoproteinemia, cigarette smoking, gout, obesity, polycythemia, lack of physical activity, and stress. These risk factors are discussed with special reference to overnutrition and increased cholesterol levels. Recent resuults of research concerning lipids and their relation to atherosclerosis are reviewed. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/205827/
Abstract: A study of 103 healthy, white schoolchildren who were between 6 and 16 years of age revealed no positive correlation between the level of serum cholesterol and the mean daily amount of total calories, cholesterol, fat, saturated fat, or sugar in the diet. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/206127/
Abstract: Disturbances in tryptophan-nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide pathway, seen in pellagrins whose staple is sorghum have been ascribed to an amino acid imbalance caused by excess intake of leucine. Studies in normal human volunteers and in experimental animals have shown that administration of vitamin B6 will counteract some of the metabolic effects of leucine. In view of these observations, two clinical studies were conducted--one to investigate the vitamin B6 nutritional status of pellagrins and the other to determine whether plasma leucine clearance in pellagrins is different from that of normals. Vitamin B6 nutritional status of pellagrins was found to be far from satisfactory, as indicated by elevated levels of xanthurenic acid and kynurenic acid in urine after a tryptophan load and low plasma pyridoxal phosphate levels. Plasma leucine concentrations at 1, 2, and 4 hr after a leucine load were significantly higher in pellagrins than those in normals. Administration of 25 mg of vitamin B6, intramuscularly 30 min before leucine load significantly decreased plasma leucine concentration in pellagrins. However, the leucine concentration at 4th hr did not return to basal level. Administration of vitamin B6 10 TO 20 mg/day orally for 10 to 15 days normalized leucine tolerance in pellagrins. Data presented here suggest that when the diets contain excess leucine, additional amounts of vitamin B6 are required. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/206139/
Abstract: An adult woman with hypoglycemia, hyperlactatemia, hyperuricemia, hypertriglyceridemia, hyperketonemia and inability to make new glucose from galactose, fructose, glycerol and alanine was found to have no hepatic glucose-6-phosphatase and deficient fructose-1,6-diphosphatase. Nonautonomous hyperglucagonemia was demonstrated and shown to contribute to the hyperlactatemia and hyperketonemia. A paradoxic hyperlactatemic response to glucose and galactose was observed. Studies of substrate utilization showed prompt adaptation to changes in dietary supply of energy which probably accounted for her never having experienced symptoms of hypoglycemia. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/205758/
Abstract: Bilateral adrenal gland hemorrhage was found in 22 of 2,000 (1.1%) consecutive general hospital autopsies. Clinical features of these 22 patients with diffuse or focal bilateral adrenal hemorrhage have been analyzed and compared with previous series. In our experience, patients with this postmortem finding rarely manifest features of adrenocortical insufficiency and appear instead to die as a consequence of concomitant overwhelming illness, such as septicemia, body surface burns or cardiovascular catastrophe. Two-thirds of the current series had impaired renal function at the time of adrenal hemorrhage and three patients had pituitary gland necrosis. Experimental and clinical observations indicate that the "stressed" adrenal gland--under substantive endogenous or exogenous ACTH stimulation--is unusually susceptible to hemorrhage. While our own experience indicates that bilateral adrenal hemorrhage can infrequently be implicated as a factor contributing to patients' death, the possibility of adrenocortical insufficiency must be considered in patients at risk for adrenal hemorrhage. Such patients are those who are azotemic and have bacteremia, burns, or recent cardiovascular catastrophe, particularly when the latter is managed with anticoagulant administration. In these patients, unexplained clinical deterioration or the appearance of findings consistent with adrenocortical insufficiency mandate measurement of serum cortisol concentration and institution of stress-level corticosteroid replacement therapy until a diagnosis of acute adrenocortical insufficiency can be established or refuted. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/226109/
Abstract: This study was designed to assess HDL levels in children of young men with IHD, compared with children of asymptomatic men. Like their fathers, sons of patients with heart disease, had significantly lower HDL cholesterols than controls. This difference was independent of fasting triglycerides, obesity, diet or physical activity, and was the only "coronary risk factor" in this young age group. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/226024/
Abstract: Two children who presented with Wilm's tumour and severe hypertension are described. The hypertension, which was secondary to excessive renin secretion, regressed after unilateral nephrectomy. In one child the total quantity of renin in the tumour was high and the peripheral plasma renin was also increased. The latter was unaffected by posture or a low salt diet and on angiography there was no compression of the renal arteries. Electron microscopy of the tumour cells showed numerous intra-cytoplasmic granules. In the other child the peripheral renin was only moderated elevated and could be stimulated by changes in posture or a low salt diet. Angiography demonstrated a large tumour that was compressing the renal artery on that side. No renin was detected in the tumour. In this child the inappropriate secretion of renin was probably due to renal parenchyma close to the tumour causing reno-vascular hypertension. The anti-hypertensive effect of propranolol given pre-operatively was excellent. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/226733/
Abstract: The effects of a 13-week moderate exercise program on fasting plasma insulin, lipids, and lipoprotein cholesterol concentrations were studied in 32 sedentary, middle-aged men with coronary artery disease. The preponderant component of the exercise program was walking or slow jogging. There was no significant change in the systolic blood pressure and pulse rate product response to a standard exercise load. The high-density lipoprotein-cholesterol (HDL-C) level increased, and the fasting plasma insulin concentration decreased. There were no significant changes in plasma triglycerides or low-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels. In sedentary subjects with coronary artery disease, a modest increase in activity can result in an increase in the HDL-C level and a decrease in the plasma insulin concentration. These changes occurred in the absence of variations in diet, smoking habits, adiposity, or plasma triglyceride concentrations and did not require a cardiovascular training effect. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/226259/
Abstract: Studies were undertaken to further characterize plasma lipids and lipoprotein abnormalities in Friedreich's ataxia. The high density lipoprotein (HDL) apo AI/AII ratio was quantitated by densitometry and found to be normal. The free to esterified cholesterol ratio in HDL was lower in Friedreich's ataxia because of a reduction in the amount of free cholesterol in this lipoprotein class. The fatty acid profile of the cholesteryl-ester (CE) fraction was markedly deficient in linoleic acid (18:2) in both total plasma and HDL. There was a compensatory increase in saturated acids. The HDL phospholipid (PL) fraction also showed a reduction in the proportion of 18:2 with a concomitant increase in stearic (18:0) and oleic acid (18:1) while the HDL triglyceride (TG) fraction showed only an increase in palmitoleic (16:1) and oleic acids. Feeding of soya lecithin rich in 18:2 failed to increase significantly the 18:2 content of HDL-CE and HDL-PL but lowered the percentage of 16:1 and 18:1 in all 3 lipid classes of HDL. Although the total plasma CE fatty acid profile was perturbed in Friedreich's Ataxia, total plasma PL and TG fatty acid patterns were unaffected. Among the plasma lipoprotein fatty acid profiles, that of the low density lipoprotein (LDL) was most affected, then that of the HDL. The very low density lipoprotein (VLDL) fatty acid composition showed an increase in 16:1 and a decrease in 18:2 which were entirely corrected by lecithin feeding. These results suggest the existence of a metabolic defect in the incorporation of 18:2 into chylomicron phospholipids within the intestinal mucosa. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/226490/
Abstract: Microscopic examination of multiple faeces samples of 2 825 persons was carried out in the Metropolitan Lagos. Overall prevalence of Entamoeba histolytica was 11.2%. Prevalence increased rapidly in younger age groups and there were no real differences between males and females. Prevalence was high among families who ate together from the same plate, among those who ate with their fingers and among those who ate away from home. Prevalence was not associated with type of water supply but was seemingly influenced by storage of household supplies. A low infection rate was associated with the availability of water closets and toilet habit. No association was found between prevalence and standard of education but the rate of infection was increased among workers with high occupational interaction. Significant differences were found among different ethnic groups. The highest infection rate was recorded in the last month of the wet season. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/226356/
Abstract: Health examinations by a revised method aimed at detecting renal tubular dysfunctions more effectively were conducted on the general population aged 50 years and over in cadmium-polluted areas (1826 persons) and control areas (1611 persons) in four prefectures in Japan in 1976. Although detailed analysis of the data is not yet completed, some of the results obtained are described here. The prevalence of glucosuria and low molecular weight proteinuria, frequency of decreased % TRP, and cadmium concentrations in urine are higher in the cadmium-polluted areas than in the controls. Clinically diagnosed cases with tubular dysfunctions seem to follow the same trend as above, though these cases are very few in number and they are limited to the advanced age group. When cadmium concentration in rice is taken as an index, a dose-response relationship is not necessarity explicit in the observations by prefecture. However, suggestive data are obtained in the observation by district in one cadmium-polluted area. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/226355/
Abstract: Studies were carried out in Japan, United States, and Sweden regarding comparability of analytical methods for cadmium, daily intake of cadmium via food, daily amount of cadmium in feces, concentrations of cadmium in different tissues and the body burden of cadmium, urinary excretion of cadmium and cadmium concentrations in blood. It was found that the cadmium intake via food among adults is about 35 mug/day in Japan (Tokyo) and about 17 mug/day in the U.S. (Dallas) and Sweden (Stockholm). It varies with age in a way similar to calorie intake. Body burden increases rapidly with age. The half-time of cadmium is longer in muscles than in liver or kidneys. In the cross-sectional population samples studied (smokers and nonsmokers mixed) the average cadmium body burden at age 45 was about 21 mg in Japan, 9 mg in the U.S., and 6 mg in Sweden. Among nonsmokers in the U.S. and Sweden the body burden at age 45 was about 5-6 mg. The difference in average body burden for smokers and nonsmokers is explained by differences in smoking habits. Cadmium excretion in urine was closely correlated with body burden and about 0.005-0.01% of body burden is excreted daily in urine. Cadmium concentration in the blood was a good indicator of average recent intake over a 3-month period. Neither blood cadmium nor urine cadmium changed immediately after an increase of exposure level. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/226656/
Abstract: The role of human rotavirus in adult diarrhea was evaluated in 164 newly arrived US students attending summer school at an urban Mexican university. Rotavirus was identified in stool samples by electron microscopy. Rotavirus was found in 26 of 109 students with diarrhea (24%) and in 8 of 55 asymptomatic control students (15%). Although bacterial pathogens were recovered from virus positive students with diarrhea, viral shedding also occurred independently of other agents. Clinical disease in students excreting only rotavirus tended to be mild and was accompanied by a low density of viral shedding. Food consumption in the home and at public eating establishments was examined the week before illness. While the location of food consumption was found to be important in the acquisition of diarrhea, there was no apparent relationship of the site where meals were eaten and the acquisition of rotavirus by students newly arrived in Mexico. These data support our previous study in a US student population residing in a rural setting in Mexico and implicate rotavirus as a cause of diarrhea among students traveling to Mexico from the United States. The present study offers additional evidence that rotavirus infection in this population might be spread by a nonfood vehicle of transmission which differs from spread of enterotoxigenic E coli, Shigella, or Salmonella strains in the same population. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/226768/
Abstract: The effect of prostaglandin synthesis inhibition on basal and ACTH-stimulated adrenal and renal function was investigated in normal volunteers. Data were collected during control and experimental study periods (13 days each). Adrenocorticotrophic hormone (Cosyntropin, 80 U/day) was administered i.v. on days 8 and 9 of each period. Indomethacin (150 mg/day) was given on days 5 through 13 of the experimental period. The subjects ate a constant diet containing 9 mEq of sodium, 100 mEq of potassium, and 2,500 ml of fluid daily. Indomethacin markedly inhibited urinary PGE excretion and plasma PGE concentration. The effect of ACTH alone as compared to the effect of ACTH and indomethacin showed: plasma sodium concentration, 139 +/- 1 vs. 131 +/ 3 mEg/liter (P less than 0.01, mean +/- SEM); plasma osmolality, 287 +/- 3 vs. 270 +/- 3 mOsm/liter (P less than 0.01); free water clearance, 97 +/- 66 vs. -1100 +/- 380 ml/24hr (P less than 0.01); urine volume, 2,000 +/- 60 vs. 950 +/- 200 ml/day (P less than 0.01); and urine osmolality 282 +/- 12 vs. 720 +/- 144 mOsm/liter (P less than 0.01). We conclude that the effects of ACTH and prostaglandin synthesis inhibition interact to result in inappropriate antidiuresis. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/227179/
Abstract: The effect on plasma amino acid levels and sleep parameters of three experimental diet conditions was investigated in 12 healthy young men. A total of 71 sleep records and 715 plasma samples were analysed for %REM (TDT) and total plasma tryptophan and tyrosine respectively. The ratio of tryptophan to tyrosine was virtually the same under the fat supplement as under the nosupplement conditions. The ratio associated with the CHO load was found to be 14 per cent higher, however. A 29 per cent higher value found with the Protein load may be misleading due to the nature of the supplement used. %REM (TDT) was not found to be significantly related to any of the above conditions. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/227101/
Abstract: Parenteral hyperalimentation and complete bowel rest reduce fistula output, and permit sufficient caloric and nitrogen intakes needed for healing. It corrects metabolic and nutritional deficiencies due to digestive fistulas, and allows spontaneous closure of fistulas in two out of three patients. If spontaneous healing is not obtained after six weeks of parenteral alimentation, surgical treatment may be undertaken more safety, as the patient will be in better nutritional condition. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/227076/
Abstract: 759 patients were studied, deriving from the Statistics of the Department from the last twenty years and the result of an inquiry sent out to the French members of the Collegium Internationale Chirurgiae Digestival. For 602 tumors of the cardia, the long term results of the upper gastrectomies were, inspite of area of non-invaded lymph nodes for 1/3 of the patients, the same for the two sources of statistics, with almost no survival after the fourth year. On the contrary, however, the percentages of survival of total gastrectomies "by choice" are 40 and 31% after five years. As for the cancers of the lower part, the result was not as precise and the apparent or proved non invaded state of lymph nodes during the operation make us rather tend towards a partial gastrectomy. (Combined with a mortality rate inferior to those of total gastrectomies). As for the total of gastric cancers, the total gastrectomies "by necessity" (eith by tumor growth or lymph tive therapy in a specialized center permit fifty per cent after five years, for the patients who would have been condemned by any other therapeutical act. The nutritional consequences of the total gastrectomies were studied and permitted to conclude that post operative therapy in a specialized center permit fifty per cent of the patients of work age to take up their professional activities again and, on the whole, sixty five per cent of them to have completely satisfactory independance. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/227207/
Abstract: Urinary excretion of calcium (Ca), hydroxyproline (Hyp) and 3',5'-cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) was measured during fasting, and in the afternoon, over a 3 day period. Twelve hyperparathyroid patients, of whom 6 were re-studied after successful parathyroid surgery, and 10 control subjects participated, and were maintained on a collagen free diet for the duration of the study. Expressed as creatinine ratio values, Hyp was significantly higher in the morning than during the afternoon, whereas the Ca excretion pattern showed low morning and high afternoon values for all groups. cAMP excretion did not change during the two sampling periods. Large day to day variations for each parameter were observed in the individual patient. The value of cAMP measurements in the diagnosis of primary hyperparathyroidism was confirmed. The results may imply that a diurnal variation in Hyp excretion exists in primary hyperparathyroidism and that food intake produces a suppression of Hyp excretion, possibly secondary to suppression of parathyroid function or, in our view, to increased calcitonin excretion. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/227251/
Abstract: The kidney should be regarded as an organ of central importance in the regulation of calcium metabolism. Its secretion product, 1 alpha,25(OH)2D3, is regulated by several factors, including the calcium and phosphorus content of the diet, parathyroid hormone and the level of 1 alpha,25(OH)2D3 itself. The main occasions in health where 1 alpha,25(OH)2D3 secretion is enhanced are during growth and reproduction. In these situations the secretion of this new renal hormone is under at least partial control of growth hormone and prolactin. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/227154/
Abstract: The effects of variable dietary thiamine concentrations (deficient, normal, surplus) on the development of alcoholic neuromyopathy in rats exposed for 36 weeks to 10-25% (v/v) ethanol or water (control group) as the sole drinking fluid were studied by histological and electrophysiological methods. Abnormalities in the structure of the sciatic nerve (phagocytosis, myelin abnormalities, increase in nonspecific cholinesterase activity) and tibial muscles (angular atrophic fibers, group atrophy, fibre necrosis) developed more frequently in animals on diets deficient in thiamine than in animals on diets with normal or surplus thiamine, and more frequently in animals drinking alcohol and water than in those drinking water alone. No differences were observed between the different groups in the number of perivascular sympathetic nerves, in the motor nerve conduction velocities and in the muscle fibrillation potentials. Thus, thiamine deficiency, established as a significant reduction of red blood cell transketolase activity, seems to have a deleterious effect on the peripheral nerves and muscles. The effect is enhanced by the simultaneous consumption of ethyl alcohol. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/227138/
Abstract: Coronary atherosclerosis developed in normolipemic swine fed a basal ration supplemented with 125,000 IU, 62,500 IU and 31,250 IU of vitamin D3/kg of diet for 3 months and subsequently only the basal ration for the following 3 months. Lesions consisted of intimal atheromata and calcified internal elastica and caused luminal narrowing. The incidence of atherosclerotic lesions was proportional to the vitamin D3 doses. The present experimentally induced lesions had many morphological features resembling those in coronary arteries from human subjects. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/227368/
Abstract: A multiple assay capable of reliably determining vitamins D(2) and D(3) (ergocalciferol and cholecalciferol), 25(OH)D(2) (25-hydroxyvitamin D(2)) and 25(OH)D(3) (25-hydroxyvitamin D(3)), 24,25(OH)(2)D (24,25-dihydroxyvitamin D), 25,26(OH)(2)D (25,26-dihydroxyvitamin D) and 1,25(OH)(2)D (1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D) in a single 3-5ml sample of human plasma was developed. The procedure involves methanol/methylene chloride extraction of plasma lipids followed by separation of the metabolites and purification from interfering contaminants by batch elution chromatography on Sephadex LH-20 and Lipidex 5000 and by h.p.l.c. (high-pressure liquid chromatography). Vitamins D(2) and D(3) and 25(OH)D(2) and 25(OH)D(3) are quantified by h.p.l.c. by using u.v. detection, comparing their peak heights with those of standards. 24,25(OH)(2)D and 25,26(OH)(2)D are measured by competitive protein-binding assay with diluted plasma from vitamin D-deficient rats. 1,25(OH)(2)D is measured by competitive protein-binding assay with diluted cytosol from vitamin D-deficient chick intestine. Values in normal human plasma samples taken in February are: vitamin D 3.5+/-2.5ng/ml; 25(OH)D 31.6+/-9.3ng/ml; 24,25(OH)(2)D 3.5+/-1.4ng/ml; 25,26(OH)(2)D 0.7+/-0.5ng/ml; 1,25(OH)(2)D 31+/-9pg/ml (means+/-s.d.). Values in two normal human plasma samples taken in February after 1 week of high sun exposure are: vitamin D 27.1+/-7.9ng/ml; 25(OH)D 56.8+/-4.2ng/ml; 24,25(OH)(2)D 4.3+/-1.6ng/ml; 25,26(OH)(2)D 0.5+/-0.2ng/ml. Values in anephric-human plasma are: vitamin D 2.7+/-0.8ng/ml; 25(OH)D 36.4+/-16.5ng/ml; 24,25(OH)(2)D 1.9+/-1.3ng/ml; 25,26(OH)(2)D 0.6+/-0.3ng/ml; 1,25(OH)(2)D was undetectable. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/227441/
Abstract: A deoxyribonuclease activity from Epstein--Barr (EB) virus producer lymphocyte cell lines which is correlated with viral production and which is not present in virus non-producer or negative lymphocyte cell lines has been purified 220-fold with 20% recovery and characterized. This nuclease copurifies through diethylaminoethylcellulose column chromatography with the EB virus induced deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) polymerase in EB virus producer cells which was recently reported by this laboratory, but elutes as a separate peak of activity upon phosphocellulose chromatography. This nuclease activity has a sedimentation coefficient of 4.0 S, a strong divalent cation requirement, an alkaline pH optimum, and the ability to utilize both native and denatured lymphocyte DNA as substrate, reducing both to monophosphonucleosides. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/227334/
Abstract: To assess the relationship between altitude, atherogenic, and anti-atherogenic lipoprotein cholesterols (low- [C-LDL] and high [C-HDL] density lipoprotein cholesterols, respectively), 136 and 94 Venezuelan Mestizos living at 1,000 and 3,500 in elevation were studied. The two groups did not differ in regard to height, weight, ethnic origin, social or economic status, nutritional patterns, age, or occupation. Both groups had a high level of daily physical exertion, an imperative in their subsistence rural agricultural economy. Due to the mountainous terrain, high altitude residents were thought to have increased levels of physical activity. Males and females at high altitude had significantly lower plasma total cholesterol and C-LDL levels, and slightly lower C-HDL levels than those at low altitudes. It is speculated that reduced coronary heart disease event rates at high altitude might be related to lower levels of the atherogenic lipoprotein cholesterol, C-LDL. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/227938/
Abstract: The development of hyperphospholipidemia and hypercholesterolemia was studied in infants that required total parenteral nutrition and given a continuous infusion of Intralipid, (1-4 g/kg body wt per 24 h. Detailed studies were carried out on infusion periods lasting 1-10 d. After 24 h there was a marked increase in plasma free cholesterol (68%) and phospholipid (77%) concentrations. Based on the amount of cholesterol in Intralipid, and the rate of infusion, it was estimated that at least 50% of the plasma cholesterol increment during 64-h infusions was derived from endogenous sources. By contrast, the hyperphospholipidemia could be attributed to the Intralipid as the rise in plasma was calculated to be equivalent to only 16% of the exogenous phospholipid infused. Approximately 10% of the phospholipid in Intralipid was in a triglyceride-free mesophase form with a free cholesterol:phospholipid molar ratio of 0.063. There were no systematic changes in plasma concentrations of cholesterol ester or triglyceride during Intralipid infusions. The increase in free cholesterol and phospholipid was localized in the low density lipoproteins (d = 1.006-1.063 g/ml). The presence of lipoprotein X (Lp-X) in the low density lipoprotein fraction was demonstrated by electrophoresis in agar and by isolation and chemical characterization with hydroxylapatite chromatography. Isoelectric focusing of urea-soluble protein of Lp-X revealed that albumin and apolipoproteins CII and CIII were major components, whereas apolipoprotein E and AI were minor constituents. The abnormal lipoprotein was apparent by 16 h during 64 h of infusion. After 6 d of continuous infusions the free cholesterol in Lp-X was 30+/-10 mg/dl (mean+/-SD), which represents a total Lp-X mass of 90 mg/dl. After cessation of the infusion, Lp-X, as monitored by electrophoresis in agar, disappeared within 72-96 h. Thus, during infusion of Intralipid in infants at rates commonly employed, the capacity of the clearance mechanisms for phospholipid are exceeded, which causes the accumulation of phospholipid and free cholesterol in the form of Lp-X particles. It is suggested that mesophase phospholipids in Intralipid may play a significant role in this process. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/245992/
Abstract: Ten days after a healthy person has consumed a purine-free isoenergetic diet, the excretion of (endogenous) uric acid reaches a minimum and remains constant thereafter. Purines are absorbed in different degrees from various biochemical sources added to such a diet--little from DNA, nearly all from ribomononucleotides--presumably owing to different rates of hydrolysis. There is always a linear relationship between dietary purine content and uric acid excretion, independent of the source of purine. The findings suggest that dietary purines play a minor role (if any) in the regulation of purine synthesis, contrary to the conclusions of other workers. The demonstration that oral administration of uridine diminishes the oroticaciduria in patients with hereditary oroticaciduria suggested dietary feedback regulation of pyrimidine biosynthesis by pyrimidine nucleosides in the diet. The reduction of allopurinol-induced oroticaciduria by dietary RNA pointed in the same direction. Closer analysis with RNA hydrolysate and isolated purine as well as pyrimidine nucleotides, however, revealed that not only pyrimidine derivatives but also purine mononucleotides diminish oroticaciduria. The nucleotides had no influence on the change in the activity of orotidine-5'-phosphate decarboxylase (EC 4.1.1.23), induced by allopurinol; this makes an effect on the decarboxylase unlikely. The feedback regulation is assumed to act by inhibition of an earlier step. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/262176/
Abstract: We carefully selected 30 men with primary gout, rendered asymptomatic by therapy, to examine the frequency and type of hyperlipidemia and hyperlipoproteinemia, with the objective of determining whether serum uric acid, alcohol intake, liver function, kidney function, and (or) drugs were participating in the secondary lipid disorder. Sixty-one age- and sex-matched men were used as controls. About 73% of the gout patients had hypertriglyceridemia, 1.6-fold the frequency found in the control group. Types IV and IIb lipoprotein electrophoretic patterns were most prevalent in the gout group. Neither alcohol intake nor hyperuricemia, per se, seems to be the cause of the lipid and lipoprotein disorder and cannot be related to liver or kidney dysfunctions. Obesity was the major underlying factor associated with the lipidemia. The study suggests that diet and, possibly, defective clearance of triglycerides may be etiologic factors associated with the abnormal serum triacylglycerol (triglyceride) and lipoprotein concentrations in these individuals. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/262190/
Abstract: In this manual fluorometric method, blood samples are used that have been impregnated on the filter paper, a convenient collection technique that is widely used to screen newborns for phenylketonuria. The modified procedure, based on the method of McCaman and Robins [J. Lab Clin. Med. 59, 885 (1962)], includes elution of phenylalanine from specimens on filter paper, removal of proteins by precipitation with trichloroacetic acid at 0 degrees C, and then reaction with ninhydrin-peptide reagent for color development. The standard curve is linear to at least 200 mg/L and the CV is 6.3% for a phenylalanine concentration of 27 mg/L. The modified procedure is suitable both for early screening for phenylketonuria and for monitoring blood phenylalanine of phenylketonurics during dietary therapy. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/263289/
Abstract: A sensitive RIA for human calcitonin has been developed which can detect 1-2 pg hormone. This procedure permits the measurement of the low concentrations of calcitonin in the unextracted plasma of normal human subjects. In 55 normal adults, mean plasma calcitonin was 24 pg/ml with an SD of +/- 18 pg/ml, an SE of +/- 2 pg/ml, and a range of less than 10 - 75 pg/ml. There were no discernible age or sex differences in basal hormone concentration. Infusions of calcium, pentagastrin, and glucagon stimulated plasma calcitonin, whereas food and oral calcium did not. The stimulatory effect of pentagastrin was greater in males than in females. These data demonstrate that the low concentration of calcitonin in humans can be stimulated by several secretagogues and suggest that females may have decreased calcitonin reserve. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/263374/
Abstract: Sixty-nine cases of Osteomyelitis, and 27 of septic arthritis have been presented. 69/96 (71%) were children below 12. The sites frequently involved were tibia, femur and humerus. Septic arthritis commonly involved the knee. The commonest organism was Penicillin - resistant Staphylococcus aureus. Though we sought but failed to establish that overt clinical malnutrition was aetiologically important, since 54% were well-fed children, the virulence of the sepsis in which an entire bone shaft may die is disturbing but unexplained. Whereas arthrotomy plus antibiotics gave uniformly good results for septic arthritis, in osteomyelitis, no single treatment regime was outstanding. We would recommend the tetracyclines, (eg. "Reverin"), in addition to appropriate surgery, as a routine. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/263488/
Abstract: An investigation into the feasibility of using X-ray computed tomography (CT) to measure disease induced changes in bone mineral content of the human spine is described. A theoretical study of this type of measurement has been made using a mathematical model of osteomalacia. The measured EMI number changes linearly with the mineral content, and the sensitivity is shown to be 1.2 EMI units (EU: 500 scale)/1% change in mineral content in vertebral bone. The physical sensitivity to an equal mineral change in cortical bone is found to be 8.6 times greater. The mineral selectivity of the CT method is such that only about half the change in the EMI number arising from progressive osteomalacia reflects change in actual mineral content, while half is due merely to changes in bone density that accompany demineralization. In addition, the perturbing effects of beam hardening on measurement accuracy are evaluated and shown to be significant. Finally, an experimental measurement indicates that in practice the reproducibility of such measurements would be about 1 EU, and it is shown that the measured parameter correlates well with the calculated total linear attenuation coefficients. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/263527/
Abstract: Clinical and biochemical diagnostic studies concerned 17 cases of galactosemia coming from 15 not consauguineous families. Galactosemia was diagnosed between 1-st day and 11-th month of life. Tentative diagnosis based on clinical picture was made in 12 infants, others were detected through family history of galactosemia and/or biochemical newborn screening carried out at the National Research Institute of Mother and Child since 1969. Clinical symptoms of galactosemia occurred in most patients in the first week of life. They were the following (tab. II): hepatomegaly (in 94%), jaundice (81%), splenomegaly (79%), vomitus (62%) and diarrhoea in 56% of patients. Cataract was found in 6 infants (38%). Biochemical diagnosis was based on the results of enzymatic estimation of galactose-1-phosphate uridyl transferase activity in blood, galactose-1-phosphate in red blood cells and galactose in blood and urine. No activity of galactose-1-phosphate uridyl transferase was found in all patients, and the concentration of galactose-1-phosphate was higher than 25 mg/100 ml of red blood cells. High galactose level was observed in blood and urine in all patients with typical clinical course of galactosemia. In 2 patients however without clinical symptoms of the disease only trace amounts of galactose was detected in blood and urine. All these patients were treated with galactose free diet. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/263530/
Abstract: Low phenylalanine diet treatment in children with phenylketonuria (PKU) started sufficiently early prevents mental retardation. But the question whether the treatment prevents all c n s damage is still open. This problem was evaluated on the basis of longitudinal neurological and psychological studies of 118 PKU children in whom treatment was started before the 6-th week of life. As a comparative group 90 children with untreated or late treated PKU were investigated. A detailed analysis of the results was carried out investigating each case in relation to the precision of dietary restrictions and the duration of treatment. The incidence and type of abnormal findings were compared with the abnormalities found in children with untreated or late treated PKU and with the incidence in the total child population. In 78 children (66,1%) there were no abnormalities in the neurological status and mental development was normal except for some retardation in the visual-motor maturation. In 35 children (29,7%) signs of hyperkinetic syndrome were present in 5 (4,2%) there was both mental retardation and signs of hyperkinetic syndrome. In the comparative group all 90 children had severe neurological abnormalities and mental retardation. The obtained results confirm that the essential effect of the diet on the development of PKU patients is during the first year of life. In order to obtain optimal results however, it is necessary to continue the diet for a sufficiently long period. But in spite of following the prescribed treatment in PKU children it is not always possible to prevent minimal c n s damage. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/262168/
Abstract: Albumin is most abundant and most studied protein of the circulation. Its biosynthesis is closely dependent on the nutrition, amino acid supply, hormonal millieu, environment, osmotic equilibrium, diseases and some other factors. Albumin is synthetized in the liver on a polyscmes and delivered into the blood streem. Degradation of albumin is practically still unknown and is one of many biological puzzles. Albumin prepared for therapeutic use almost contains dimers, oligomers and polymers which are very important, because they are one of the parameters for evaluation of albumin products quality. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/263544/
Abstract: The small-for-Date (S-f-D) infants are treated as high risk infants with regard to some metabolic disorders. Special attention should be paid to disorders of energy metabolism. The S-f-D infants already at birth showed the symptoms and results of intrauterine undernutrition, analogical to protein-calorie malnutrition in infants with postnatal dystrophy. The most important effect of intrauterine undernutrition influencing energy metabolism of S-f-D infants were discussed. Higher calorie requirement and higher calorie losses than in full-size (FS) infants were underlined. It was noted that proper feeding may, to a great extent, lessen the results of deficits in gestational age, as well as to increase the survival ability and assure the best possible physical and mental development. As the knowledge of energy metabolism in infants, particularly in those born with intrauterine undernutrition, is insufficient the studies of calorie balance were undertaken. The investigations were carried out in 26 infants observed longitudinally and crossectionally . All infants were fed ad libitum unmodified fat and protein cow's milk formulas containing glucose instead of saccharose in the first trimester and from second trimester gluten--free flour instead of wheat flour. Other meals were given according to obligatory scheme of infants' nutrition. The results of calorie balance studies were compared with the roper data of FS infants in I trimester and II semester of life, which were described in our previous paper. The results of fat an nitrogen balances were also taken into consideration. It was found, that the calorie intake in S-f-D infants is higher, particularly in first months of life, than in FS infants. It is closely related to the degree of intrauterine dystrophy. In this respect S-f-D infants behave similarly as the infants with postnatal dystrophy, which are capable to catch-up by increased calorie intake in answer to previous undernutrition. The calorie excretion in feces is significantly higher inthe first months of life in S-f-D infants.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS) 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/263533/
Abstract: In the previous work published in No 7 of "Development Period Medicine" ( Problemy Medycyny Wieku Rozwojowego ) the results of nitrogen balance studies in S-f-D infants fed different milk formulas were described. The present study concerns other protein metabolism indices in the same infants. The infants were divided into four groups according to the formula they were fed. The composition of formulas is shown in table I. In the infants besides the balance study, serum urea nitrogen, protein and albumin level, were estimated once a month. Also urea, creatine and creatinine, and hydroxyproline in 24-hours urine collections were examined. Excretion of creatine, creatinine and hydroxyproline was summarized in 5 boys from the group of 38 investigated infants in the first five months of life when meat-free diet was fed. The above mentioned indices permit for better assessment of the effect of the diet on protein metabolism and the requirement of protein for S-f-D infants. The results of protein metabolism indices were compared with the indices obtained in F.S. infants similarly fed. Group S of S-f-D infants was compared with group A of F.S. infants and the other groups of S-f-D infants were compared with each other. In S-f-D infants fed formula S, a lower level of serum urea nitrogen was observed in comparison with F.S. infants of group A in spite of greater protein intake in S-f-D infants. This should prove a greater protein requirement in S-f-D infants. Decreased protein content and cow's milk fat modification also had profitable influence on protein utilization because serum urea nitrogen and nitrogen in urine were low in S-f-D infants fed this formula. Urine urea nitrogen as a part of total urine nitrogen is bigger in group S and C infants, and the lowest in group G infants (formula with lower fat and total protein content). Serum protein and albumin level was generally higher in S-f-D infants than in FS ones. Particularly high level of these parameters was observed in group G infants. The most regular behaviour of age trend versus protein and albumin level was observed in S-f-D infants fed formula H and C, fast increase of values was observed in the first half of life. In the S-f-D infants which were given formulas with decreased content of protein H and C group lower excretion of creatine was noted. As in FS infants, a gradual increase of creatine with age and body weight was stated. In 24-hour urine collection creatine excretion was lower, particularly in the infants daily creatinine excretion was positively correlated with body weight, body length and age.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS) 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/263534/
Abstract: Observations of many investigators point at a lower amount of calcium in body composition of Small-for-Date infants (S-f-D). So far, only few investigations indicated that the calcium metabolism is disturbed in the postnatal life of S-f-D infants as well. Taking into consideration these data, the authors attempt to define calcium-requirement in S-f-D infants. In this report the cross-sectional observations of 30 infants are described . They were born after 37 weeks of gestation. The mean body weight was 2318 and it ranged between 1200-2760 g. Their body weight at birth was below 10 percentile according to Brzozowska . In these infants 3-days balance studies were carried out once a month. The calcium balance indices were compared with the indices of the Full-Size infants (FS) who were observed during the former years. The S-f-D and FS infants were fed similar diets based on unmodified cow's milk formulas. It was noted that the percentage absorption index in S-f-D infants was significantly lower than in the control group in 1-st and 2-nd trimester of life (table III, fig. 2). The S-f-D infants had a good appetite in first semester of life and they ate a big volume of milk formula and calcium in it. It seems that this is the reason that calcium retention in S-f-D infants in spite of lower ability of calcium retention, did not differ statistically from calcium retention in FS infants. The mean values were a little lower however. In the 2-nd half year of life statistically significant difference between any of the balance indices in S-f-D and FS infants was not found.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS) 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/263663/
Abstract: Fat excretion and absorption in 38 healthy S-f-D born infants fed on 4 kinds of diet, differentiated with regard to fat quantity and quality as well as protein quality, were examined by means of three 24 hour fat balances. Higher fat intake, higher fat excretion in feces and lower index of its absorption, typical of these infants, were observed. Differences in relation to the infants born with normal body-weight were particularly distinct in the first six months of life. It was noted that the quantity of fat excretion in feces was influenced by the degree of fetal malnutrition. An advantageous influence of fat modification, which consisted in partial replacement of cow-milk fat with vegetable oil (soya oil) on fat excretion and absorption, was shown. Feeding higher fat formulas--3 g/100 ml and modified protein were also considered advantageous. It was noted that S-f-D infants, even in cases of feeding with modified fat formulas, at the end of the first year of life did not reach such values of the absorption index as infants born with normal body-weight. The conception that the triglyceride structure differing from that in the breast milk is the factor deteriorating cow-milk fat absorption in the infants was suggested and discussed. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/317640/
Abstract: By employing the rosette technique the peripheral T and B lymphocytes were determined in 24 patients with terminal renal failure treated by diet and 17 subjects treated by program of repeated hemodialysis. The decreased percentage of B-cells was found in both groups of patients in comparison with the control group. The more distinct decrease of B-cells was observed in patients treated by hemodialysis in comparison with undialized patients but the difference was statistically nonsignificant. The degree of immunity disturbance in chronic renal failure does not depend on dialysis but on the duration of the renal insufficiency. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/317242/
Abstract: A Korean child aged six months with congenital syphilis and malnutrition developed pneumocystis carinii pneumonia. He recovered after treatment with trimethoprin/sulphamethoxazole with assisted ventilation. There was no evidence of immune deficiency. The role of congenital syphilis and malnutrition predisposing the baby to this infection is discussed. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/317259/
Abstract: Twenty-nine malnourished preschoolers in third grade, with a history of globally deficient feeding and very poor individual and environmental hygiene, who presented ocular lesions attributed to avitaminosis A, mainly keratomalacia, were studied. Fifteen patients had keratomalacia with superficial corneal ulceration and fourteen had severe complications such as corneal perforation, descemetocele, expulsion of ocular contents and leukomas adherent to the rest of the eye structures, with final amaurosis. The pathophysiological alterations caused by vitamin A deficiency in ocular structures are synergistic to those inherent to protein deficiency. Treatment should be local, general or surgical; but the main management should be prophylactic, improving the socioeconomic and nutritional conditions of the family. Once severe keratomalacia lesions are established, important visual alterations will persist, from giant leukomas to complete blindness. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/318207/
Abstract: To study the question of whether or not cell death contributes significantly to normal or stressed postnatal brain development in a way which is biochemically quantifiable, we carried out an experiment to assess the amount of cell death in developing cerebellum. By measuring the loss of DNA content and the loss of 14C from labelled thymidine previously incorporated into the DNA fraction (DNAF) in X-irradiated neonatal animals, shown by histological methods to have cell death to the degree of degranulating the external granular layer (EGL), we showed that when cells die both label and DNA content are greatly decreased in the cerebellum. Experiments on both normal and malnourished animals showed that cell death does not contribute significantly to cerebellar development in either malnutrition-stressed or normal animals. Here, we present a biochemical tool for assessing cell death and evidence that cell death does not contribute significantly to cerebellar development. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/318192/
Abstract: Prior studies of developmentally protein malnourished rats have reported substantial changes in brain and peripheral utilization of 14C-leucine, 14C-phenylalanine, and 14C-tryptophan. In the present study rats born to dams fed a low protein diet (8% casein) compared to the offspring of control rats fed a normal diet (25% casein) showed few significant differences in the uptake and incorporation of 14C-tyrosine into brain and peripheral tissues from birth to age 21 days. At birth, the 8% casein pups exhibited significant decreases in brain and peripheral tissue incorporation of tracer only at short post-injection times (10 and 20 min), but not at longer intervals (90 and 180 min). During ontogenetic development (Days 5-21), the 8% casein rats showed significant increases in uptake of 14C-tyrosine into the brain and peripheral tissues on Day 11 and a significantly higher percent incorporation of tracer into brain protein on Day 21 as compared to the 25% casein rats. For the most part, there were no significant changes in incorporation of radioactivity in peripheral tissues for the 2 diet groups on these post-birth days. Overall, the data indicates that developmental protein malnutrition causes relatively fewer changes in brain and peripheral utilization of the semi-essential amino acid tyrosine than those observed in previous studies with essential amino acids. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/318294/
Abstract: 1. The occurrence of 25-hydroxy vitamin D binding protein in human, bovine, monkey and porcine milk was investigated. 2. Sucrose gradient ultracentrifugation revealed the presence of 4.2 S and 5.7 S binding globulins in the whey of human, monkey and porcine milk. 3. Although bovine plasma also contains a 4.2 S globulin only a 5.7 S protein was found in bovine milk. 4. The 4.2 S and 5.7 S globulins in milk could not be resolved by polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis or by isoelectric focusing. 5. Plasma and whey binding proteins of any one species had the same isoelectric point but there were small differences among species (4.5-4.8). 6. Competitive displacement studies showed that the binding proteins in milk have high affinity for 25-hydroxy-cholecalciferol and 24,25-dihydroxycholecalciferol. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/318510/
Abstract: The unusual presentation of a factory worker with severe hemolytic anemia which remitted following splenectomy prompted a search for an environmental cause for red cell injury. The investigation showed the presence of an immunoglobulin in the patient's serum and on the red cells and small amounts of complement on red cells. The patient's serum caused agglutination of a normal person's red cells only when dieldrin-coated, a reaction blocked by first reacting the serum with dieldrin. The spleen of the patient had a greater than normal concentration of dieldrin, the source of dieldrin being dietary. It is concluded that dieldrin became immunogenic and provoked a chemical immunohemolytic anemia. The spleen played a major role in destruction of red cells injured by the immunopathic process and in accumulation of the antigenic substance dieldrin. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/318742/
Abstract: Sixteen children with familial hypertriglyceridemia were studied to determine whether there were any distinctive insulintriglycerid-obesity relationships in pediatric familial hypertriglyceridemia. Eleven of 16 children had calculated fat mass greater than the 97th percentile for age, height, and sex. When compared with 16 normal control subjects matched for degree of obesity immunoreactive insulin and glucose response during oral glucose tolerance was similar for normal and hypertriglyceridemic children. By either simple correlation or multiple regression analysis, plasma, triglycerides did not correlate significantly with measurements of insulin or obesity in hypertriglyceridemic or normal children. Within the limits of a small sample size, and in the presence of obesity, insulin does not appear to play a predominant role in the genesis of hypertriglyceridemia in children with familial hypertriglyceridemia. With a small mean weight loss of 1.8 kg and adherence to a diet with 20% of calories as protein, 40% each as fat and carbohydrate, polyunsaturate to saturate ratio of 1.5:1, mean plasma triglycerides were reduced from 238 to 140 mg/100 ml in the 11 obese children with familial hypertriglyceridemia (P less than 0.02). Speculation In spite of the complicating role of obesity, adolescence, and the small sample size, it is interesting to note that the correlation coefficients between triglyceride and insulin/glucose area (0.36), and insulin area (0.30), although not significant (P less than 0.1), were considerably higher in hypertriglyceridemic children than in normal subjects in whom comparable correlation coefficients were 0.08 and 0.08. This infers that the potential role of insulin in triglyceride metabolism in children with familial hypertriglyceridemia might be discerned with longitudinal follow-up into adulthood. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/318736/
Abstract: This follow-up study presents the effects of DES on the genital tract of male and female offspring of mothers who were part of a double-blind, placebo-controlled investigation during 1951 and 1952 aimed at determining the effect of DES on pregnancy. Epididymal cysts, hypotrophic testes, and capsular induration were the more common genital lesions found in 25% of 163 DES-exposed males as compared to 6% in 168 control males. Semen analysis data on 39 subjects of the DES-exposed group and 25 subjects of the control group showed that 26% of the DES-exposed group produced an ejaculate volume under 1.5 ml; no such cases were observed in the control group. The average values for sperm density ant total motile spermatozoa per ejaculate, although in the normal range, were more than two times lower in the DES-exposed group as compared to the controls. A quality score of greater than 10 ("severely pathologic semen") was found in 28% of the DES-exposed group as compared to 0 in the control group. An association of pathologic semen quality with physical abnormalities was found only in the DES-exposed group. Two cases of azoospermia, one without genital abnormalities on physical examination and one with bilateral hypotrophic testes were observed so far in the DES-exposed group. Eighteen percent of 229 DES-exposed female patients had irregular menstrual cycles (oligomenorrhea) as compared to 10% of 136 controls. The history of pregnancy revealed a lower incidence of pregnancy in the DES-exposed group (18%) than in the control group (33%). Circumferential ridges of the vagina and cervix were seen in 40% of 229 DES-exposed females but in none of 136 controls. Colposcopic findings in the vagina revealed adenosis in 66.8% of the DES-exposed females and in 3.6% of the control group. Dysplastic lesions were more prevalent in the vagina and cervix of the DES-exposed subjects. No cases of cancer were observed in either the male or female offspring. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/318803/
Abstract: A basic understanding of fetal nutrition and metabolism is essential in the clinical management of the obstetric patient. The fetus depends upon a constant infusion of glucose for energy production and growth. Maternal glucose is the prime source of this nutrient. Alterations in maternal carbohydrate homeostasis will lead to changes in fetal metabolism. In diabetes mellitus, hyperglycemia may produce hyperinsulinemia and macrosomia. The growth-retarded fetus may have a decreased supply of maternal glucose and reduced amounts of hepatic glycogen and adipose tissue. The fetus must depend upon these stores for survival during periods of intrauterine hypoxia. In the newborn period, hypothermia and hypoxia may rapidly deplete energy reserves. With this information, the clinician may more knowledgeably manage dietary demands in the antepartum patient, fetal distress during labor, and the immediate newborn period. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/318950/
Abstract: The antihypertensive and renin-lowering efficacy and side effects of tolamolol, a beta adrenergic blocking drug with cardioselectivity, were examined in 10 patients with mild essential hypertension while on regular diet. Tolamol, at a dose of 300 to 900 mg per day, given over a period of 2 to 4 wk significantly decreased systolic and diastolic blood pressures in both the recumbent and standing positions. Normal blood pressure (140/90 mm Hg or less) was attained in 8 subjects. Mean heart rate and ambulatory midday plasma renin activity (PRA) decreased significantly; however, there was no significant correlation between blood pressure decrease and either the pretreatment PRA or decrease in PRA. Body weight did not change significantly. No adverse side effects were detected and no changes in the liver or renal function or in the blood count were observed. It is concluded that tolamolol is effective in lowering blood pressure and PRA in patients with hypertension. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/318898/
Abstract: The effect of increasing doses of fenfluramine on dream patterns was studied in 20 patients receiving a reducing diet with or without a controlled dietary intake of vitamin C daily. The dream pattern was unchanged in six patients and dreams disappeared in another who normally dreamed often. In 13 patients dreams increased in frequency and intensity, and in five the dreams assumed frightening proportions. There was a significant straight-line relation between response and the size of the dose. When placebo tablets were given to four patients their dreams disappeared or assumed their pretreatment normal pattern. Absence of vitamin C from the diet did not significantly affect the dream pattern. That fenfluramine has dose-related cerebral effects should be remembered in patients with a history of mental illness. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/319069/
Abstract: This article is about the problems of malnutrition and disease in a rural area of an underdeveloped country, Tanzania. The particular way in which health problems were conceptualized during the colonial era, the structure of the medical services established, and the effects of health care on the health status and size of the rural population of Songea District in Tanzania are shown in the article to have been determined by the economic, social, and political requirements of German and British colonial rulers rather than by the health needs of the African population. Colonial economic policy emphasized the production of cash crops for export, whether by African peasant farmers or by European plantation owners. To provide workers for the plantations, a system of labor migration was instituted. Songea District became an area that supplied male workers to other parts of the country, with grave consequences to the health and nutrition of the women and children left behind. Domestic food production was neglected by Africans forced to migrate in search of cash to pay taxes and by those enganged in the cultivation of cash crops. Extensive malnutrition and persistent ill health related to poor diet are thus traced directly to capitalist underdevelopment of th Tanzanian economy and the structural distortions of a dependent relationship between Tanzania and the metropolitan power. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/333353/
Abstract: Necrotizing enterocolitis--a highly letal disease in the newborn period--is diagnosed in about 1--2% of the admissions to a nursery. The marcroscopic lesions are basically necroses predominantly found in the ileum, colon and jejunum. Untreated they lead to perforation, peritonitis and sepsis. The predisposing factors include such as perinatal complications, immaturity and umbilical vein catheterization; the main symptoms are bile stained vomiting and blood-streaked diarrhea, followed by signs of fulminant sepsis and peritonitis. The most typical roentgenographic findings are intramural air (pneumatosis intestinalis) and in more advanced cases pneumoperitoneum (free peritoneal air) and portal vein gas. The current plan of management--consisting of immediate withdrawal of oral feeds, gastric suction, intravenous fluid therapy, treatment of shock and administration of antibiotics--and the indication for operation are discussed. Perinatal stress and secondary bacterial invasion of the intestinal lesions seem to play an important role in the etiology of the disease. An early nutrition of the healthy immature with human breast milk seems to reduce the incidence of necrotizing enterocolitis or at least has a mitigating influence on the later course of the disease. The mortality in our own series--as reported--was high (6 patients: 1 survivor, mortality: 83%) as 4 of the patients were admitted with gross symptoms of intestinal perforation and severely shocked. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/333424/
Abstract: The authors present remote results of treatment of 23 patients with congenital hypothyroidism in whom the disease manifested itself in childhood; these patients reached the age of 20-30 years by the end of their examination. The efficacy of replacement hormonal therapy was connected not only with the early diagnosis of the disease, and timely treatment, but also with regularity of its institution at later years. Stable hypothyroidish compensation at the early stages of child development led to a proper physical, mental and sexual development of the patients, and promoted normalization of the metabolic processes and functional activity of the internal organs, preventing the patients' invalidization. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/333572/
Abstract: The prophylaxis and treatment of renal osteodystrophy are based on pathophysiological principles. Development of secondary hyperparathyroidism should be averted by early prevention of hyperphosphatemia through diet and phosphate ligants, and by normalization of the calcium balance through calcium supplements and vitamin D or its analogues. This treatment requires close clinical and laboratory control in order to avoid several hazards (hypercalcemia, hypophosphatemia, and refractory constipation). In cases with severe secondary hyperparathyroidism, subtotal parathyroidectomy is sometimes required. Nevertheless, in one such case this operation resulted in sudden hypoparathyroidism two years postoperatively. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/333553/
Abstract: In February 1976 an outbreak of gastroenteritis occurred among 819 aircraft passengers to and from Gran Canaria. 360 of them had gastroenteritis and 88 were hospitalized. Fecal specimens were collected from 710 of the passengers and 344 of them were positive for Salmonella typhimurium phage type 15. Food served on the flight was the source of infection. The repeated incidences of this kind support the necessity of laying down rules and recommendations for the control of air catering services. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/333635/
Abstract: An overview of the management of the acutely burned patient has been described. Adherence to the sound principles of early resuscitation, appropriate nutrition, wound management, and rehabilitation can provide hope for many of the victims of this tragic injury. Complications encountered throughout the burn illness present unique and perplexing problems for the physician, who must utilize all the clinical wisdom and facility available in the management of such complex problems. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/333628/
Abstract: Corynebacterium vaginale is a sexually transmitted organism which was first recognized in 1953. It appears to utilize glycogen stored in vaginal epithelial cells, causing a malodorous vaginal discharge characterized by an abnormally high pH (5.0 to 5.5) and composed mainly of epithelial cells and hordes of bacilli. Infected men are asymptomatic, carry the organism for an unknown period of time, and transmit it through intercourse. The organism requires five B-vitamins, purines, pyrimidines, and a fermentable carbohydrate; neither factors X nor V are required. It is not a member of genus Haemophilus and is not likely to be a Corynebacterium. Appearing mainly Gram-negative, it has many characteristics of Gram-positive organisms including its pattern of sensitivity to antibiotics and the possession of certain enzyme systems. As the cause of bacterial vaginitis, C. vaginale may be the most prevalent sexually-transmitted organism. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/333756/
Abstract: In 110 patients with peptic ulcer aged from 16 to 25 years and in 15 healthy youths the secretary function of the stomach was studied by using fractional tubage with 300 ml of a 7% dry cabbage water as a stimulator. The secretory function was assessed according to the titrated acidity, pepsin and gastricsin data. Investigations were conducted repeatedly, viz. On admission to the clinic, following treatment with No 1 diets with an elevated protein and fats content (120--130 g) and also 8--10 months after discharge from the inpatient department. The dietotherapy (carried on for 42--45 days) did not produce any substantial normalization of the secretory gastric function, and this despite the improvement in the general condition of the patients and scarring of the ulcerous defect. A well marked tendency toward normal secretion of hydrochloric acid and proteolytic enzymes was seen to take place late after institutional dietetic treatment (in 8--10 months), provided the patients kept strictly to the prescribed dietary regimen. The normalization of the hourly HCl yield and the fall of the pepsin and gastricsin activity with the disease in the phase of remission (in 8--10 month time) concerned the first phase of secretion exclusively. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/333757/
Abstract: A total of 203 patients, 48 -- with ischemic and 155 -- with hypertensive disease in the 11A and 11B stages, were examined. The effect of lipoic acid (LA) was assessed on the ground of the dynamics in the clinical picture of the patients, some vitamins allowance figures and the activity of a number of enzymes in leucocytes, erythrocytes and in the blood serum. The LA was administered in the form of tablets, in a dose of 75 mg per day, for 10 dyas. As controls served 90 patients with ischemic and hypertensive diseases. Investigations showed the LA to have but a little influence on the clinical picture of the disease, raising somewhat the beta-lipoproteids level in patients with hypertensive and ischemic disease, irrespective of their age, and increasing the level of free fatty acids in patients over 50, forcing it down in those below 50. An age-specific effect of the LA on the blood proteinic spectrum was disclosed, viz. in patients below 55 it increased the proportion of albumins and reduced that of gamma-globulins, whereas in those aged above 55 reverse picture was in evidence. In the young LA had the tendency of bringing down the coagulating activity of the blood; whereas disaggregation of thrombocytes changed not depending upon the age, but on the form of the affection, decreasing in patients with hypertensive disease and remaining unchanged in those with ischemic heart disease. The LA helped normalize the thiamine metabolism in the organism and that of the thiamine-diphosphate containing enzymes with concurrently disturbed utilization of riboflavin in the examined patients. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/333882/
Abstract: The character of the breast milk bank after the model introduced by Dr. med. M.-E. Kayser is dealt with and an attempt is made by using old records to determine approximately exactly the date the Erfurt breast milk bank was established, as this date is still being disputed in the bibliography. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/334008/
Abstract: The aspiration of stomach contents is a common clinical problem of concern to all physicians. Its consequences are varied, depending on the amount and distribution of the aspirate, its pH, and the presence or absence of food, particulate matter, and bacteria. Because multiple factors are involved, aspiration of stomach contents can lead to several distinct syndromes of pulmonary injury, all of which unfortunately have been labeled "aspiration pneumonitis." We review the pathophysiology of each of these syndromes and discuss important diagnostic and therapeutic consequences. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/288573/
Abstract: The influence of a restricted low molecular carbohydrate diet was tested in 101 children and juveniles with diabetes mellitus. Due to the influence of this diet deep carious lesions develop more slowly. Children in whom the diabetes manifested itself at an early age had a lower index of filling and a higher index of defect. The degree of dental care was altogether alarmingly low. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/288575/
Abstract: Purposeful and supervised oral hygiene in an institution such as a child day care center is successful and should be generally required. The desired long-term success however cannot be predicted if all persons involved in the program do not reorient their thinking and if sugar is not eliminated from the diet. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/288892/
Abstract: An unusual, characteristic case of etiopathic achalasia of the esophagus is reported and the literature is reviewed. This disease has not previously been reported in the dental literature, but is well-known in the medical field. The case report illustrates the salient features of previosuly described achalasia in adults: vague history of asthma with respiratory symptoms of wheezing, obstruction to swallowing, regurgitation, intermittent pain, and peripheral neuritis in a thin patient who claims to be a light eater. The primary concern of the oral surgeon is the management of nutrition. In the case reported, to ingest food. After mobilization of the jaws, the patient could not longer eat the small amounts she could preoperatively. Suspected achalasiactic symptoms should be investigated thoroughly through proper work-up to rule out this disorder before elective surgery is performed. In nonelective cases, the practitioner must be prepared to manage the problems and complications and obtain the proper consultations. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/288966/
Abstract: The growing volume and complexity of biomedical equipment in hospitals are creating legal implications for the clinical engineer. Statutory regulations, court decisions on product liability, and the patient's right to privacy and confidentially affect daily operations. The doctrines of agency, negligence, strict liability, and breach of contract, plus the medical Device Amendments of 1976 to the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, and the Joint Commission on Accreditation of Hospitals' 1976 standards, complicate the conventional clinical engineering functions. The need for the clinical engineer to be alert to his legal obligation is assessed. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/289694/
Abstract: Twenty-seven persons who had undergone jejunoileal bypass surgery eight months or more previously returned a questionnaire which sought information about: (a) Demographic characteristics and weight loss; (b) pre- and postoperative eating behavior and food selection; (c) dietary instruction; (d) postoperative complications; and (e) postoperative attitudes. Twenty other patients were seen in a surgery clinic and interviewed informally to aid in the evaluation of data. Neither demographic characteristics nor weight loss correlated with other variables, including food selection, behavior, attitudes, or complications. Postoperative complications did relate to the consumption of green vegetables and "snacking." Postoperative changes noted were diminished appetite and less use of alcoholic beverages. Changes in post-operative eating behavior were positively correlated with changes in patients' attitudes of self-confidence and self-esteem. Neither a dietitian nor a nutritionist had been available on a structured consultation basis. During the interviews, subjects did express a desire for dietary discussions with trained professionals. In spite of distress and complications, most subjects were satisfied with the operation and perceived an improvement in their lives. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/289659/
Abstract: Overdramatized, unscientific investigations have contributed to the misconception that the cumulative effects of dental alloys are a serious threat to the clinician and other dental personnel. The reliability of the instrumentation and analytical techniques used for the analyses in this investigation has been well-documented. The following conclusions, therefore, may be drawn from the data: The absolute serum values for all groups involved in the study appear to be within the normal concentration range for the metals tested. Zinc concentrations appear to increase with the age of the individual; however, the values are still within the normal range. Copper and mercury serum-concentrations do not appear to increase with age; however, continued ingestion of foods contaminated with methyl mercury could lead to increased levels of this compound. There is no significant increase in serum copper or zinc in dentists who have been in active practice for twenty years; however, the increases in blood-mercury as measured in this study indicate that occupational exposure may not be as harmful as previously believed. When one considers that only a part of the total concentration is toxic organic mercury, the elevated value after twenty years of exposure appears to be insignificant in terms of danger to the clinician. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/289714/
Abstract: "Outpatient hyperkalemia" is a new clinical syndrome in which high serum potassium levels (SK) are found in the outpatient condition returning toward normal without any specific treatment after admission to the hospital. We report here of six patients with high blood pressure of various origin (chronic glomerulonephritis, interstitial nephritis, diabetic nephropathy, Gordon syndrome) in whom dietary and postural factors were found to be responsible for the outpatient hyperkalemia. The Na content of the "ad libitum" outpatient diet was definitely higher than that of the regular hospital diet. Increasing the Na intake from 120 mEq to 300 mEq induced a marked elevation of SK (from 5.21 +/- 0.16 to 6.34 +/- 0.40 mEq/l; p less than 0.001) in two hospitalized, recombent patients. On the other hand, Na restriction induced a dramatic improvement in hyperkalemia (from 5.89 +/- 0.11 mEq/l to 4.79 +/- 0.08 mEq/l:; p less than 0.001) in 4 patients in whom the effect was studied in the outpatient state. Although the mean plasma aldosterone (PA) was significantly lower in the patient group than in the healthy group, during normal Na intake there was a considerable overlap. A clearer distintion was made by using the new index of PA per SK ratio expressing the diminution in the apparently normal PA when related to the abnormally high SK. During high Na intake, PA was definitely suppressed and during Na restriction there was a dramatic relief from suppression. The present studies confirmed the previously described phenomenon of "upright hyperkalemia" which may have played an additional role in the development of outpatient elevation of SK. The knowledge of the clinical syndrome of "outpatient hyperkalemia" may be important to single out certain cases of easily correctable insufficient (suppressed) aldosterone production. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/290036/
Abstract: Recent clinical experiences with 34 Z-E patients indicates that the clinical features and course of the syndrome is less dramatic than described originally. Eighty-five per cent of the patients presented stories of abdominal complaints lasting more than five years and resembling the complaints presented by duodenal ulcer patients (DU). Ulcers were present in 91 per cent of the patients. Fifty-one per cent had either ectopic or multiple ulcers. One third had a single duodenal ulcer resembling an ordinary ulcer. No patients died from complications to the ulcer diathesis. Marked hypersecretion of acid and gastrin was present in the ZE group (BAO:33.7 +/- 7.4; PAO:62.8 +/- 6.1 meq H+/h; gastrin: 5094 pmol/l), but because of great individual variation in the ZE, some overlapping with the acid and gastrin measurements of the DU was seen. The diagnostic value of provocative tests using secretin, calcium, glucagon and food stimulations demonstrated a considerable overlapping between the two groups, indicating that these tests are of little clinical value. Tumours were found in half the patients, revealing malignancy in ten. The ZE can be diagnosed in most cases by combining symptomatology, with measurements of acid and gastrin. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/341053/
Abstract: This work studies 51 strains of Pseudomonas putida, isolated from clinical specimens (17) and hospital environment (34). Identification is performed by study of 41 physiologica and biochemical characters and 78 nutritional characters. According to the two biotypes A and B, described by Stanier, Palleroni and Doudoroff, these 51 strains can be grouped as follows: 48 have typical characters of biotype A, widely predominant, 3 can be distinguished from biotype A only by their auxanogram and included in biotype B. Antibiogram pattern of P. putida shows two salient features: resistant to carbenicillin and sensitivity to kanamycin. Among 17 human isolates, only 4 have likely pathogenic significance. By intraperitoneal challenge in mice, one half of strains is avirulent, other strains have a very low virulence (LD50: from 2,2 to 5 X 10(8) viable cells). There is no relationship between experimental virulence and bacterial sources. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/340583/
Abstract: The sources from which different "OH" serotypes of Escherichia coli have been isolated are listed in a series of tables. It is considered that these tables should provide a basis for obtaining a greater understanding of the ecology of E. coli. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/340813/
Abstract: The diagnosis of both acute and chronic pancreatitis continues to be a challenge despite the development of new techniques and the refinement of old methods. The problem is best approached by the application of a combination of tests which can provide a reasonable degree of sensitivity and specificity applicable to the different forms of pancreatitis. In acute pancreatitis an elevation of serum amylase and amylase/creatinine clearance ratio is diagnostically useful. In chronic pancreatitis, several tests are needed to enhance the diagnostic yield, and such tests can include the secretin-pancreozymin test, ERCP, fecal fat measurement, Lundh test meal, and the administration of the synthetic peptide BZ-Ty-PABA. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/340706/
Abstract: Quinoline, a hepatocarcinogen in rats, and 23 quinoline derivatives were tested for mutagenic activity with the Ames Salmonella typhimurium assay. Quinoline, 5-hydroxyquinoline, and 8-hydroxyquinoline were mutagenic in strain TA 100 when Aroclor 1254-induced rat (male outbred Sprague-Dawley) liver homogenate was present in the incubation mixture. Enzyme preparations from rats pretreated with P-448-dependent aryl hydrocarbon hydroxylase inducers [3-methylcholanthrene (MCA) and beta-naphthoflavone] and MCA-treated "responsive" C57BL mice also metabolized quinoline to a mutagen, but phenobarbital and pregnenolone-16alpha-carbonitrile pretreatment did not yield active preparations. The mutagenicity of quinoline was blocked by the in vitro addition of menadione, butylated hydroxytoluene, alpha-naphthoflavone, vitamin A acetate, and glutathione to the test system. Depletion of glutathione by diethyl maleate pretreatment in vivo enhanced the mutagenic potential of the liver enzyme preparation. Mutagenic activity was correlated to the formation of water-soluble quinoline metabolites, and we suggested that the reactive quinoline intermediate is quinoline-2,3-epoxide. Microsomal enzymes isolated from human liver tissue, but not lung tissue, also converted quinoline to a mutagen. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/341288/
Abstract: A new parenteral iron preparation, iron-poly (sorbitol-gluconic acid) complex, (Ferastral) has been evaluated in the treatment of iron-deficient, non-pregnant Gambian adults. A total of twenty patients of both sexes were included in the study. The cause of anaemia in the majority of cases was hookworm infection but also other diagnostic categories were present. Sixteen patients completed their treatment without difficulty. All patients showed a good initial haematological response. Over the first three weeks the mean daily increments followed a linear trend. There was a significant inverse correlation between initial haemoglobin concentration and the increment in concentration after three weeks treatment. Side-effects were noted in four patients; in two patients it was ascribed to treatment, in two there was concurrent infection. Parenteral iron therapy is considered to have definite advantages over oral iron in the tropics because of certainty of administration, replenishment of iron stores, and effectiveness when small bowel disease or dietary factors reduce absorption. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/341518/
Abstract: An important role of balanced nutrition with the use of new milk "vitalakt" in preventing upsets of the phosphorus-calcium metabolism in nurslings is shown. A significant part played by poly-unsaturated fatty acids, against the background of moderate protein loads (up to 3.0-4.0 g per kg of the child's body weight per day) in upholding the calcium homeostasis is suggested. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/341519/
Abstract: The article is the first in a series of joint publications relating to work carried out in the USSR and GDR in studying possible carcinogenicity of alimentary products and pertinent preventive measures to exclude it. It contains brief information on the effect produced by carcinogenic additives in nutritional products upon the cancer involving the gastro-intestinal tract (in workers of meat packing plants and smokehouses). Under discussion is the relation between the disease-incidence and nutritional specificity. Major sources of possible carcinogenicity of alimentary products, such as additions of some dyestuffs, admixtures of some natural substances (cycsdine, thiourea, etc), contaminations of biological origin, with mycotoxins, carcinogens finding their way from the environment and, what is most important caused by specific technology of manufacturing the nutritional product (smoking, direct drying, frying, etc) are considered. The significance of carcinogenic PAH and benzpyrene, nitrose-amines and mycotoxins is discussed. The possibility and the need for determining carcinogenic compounds, of PAH above all, and their technical limitations in alimentary products with a view of preventing cancer of the gastro-intestinal tract are considered. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/341671/
Abstract: 227 remarks on beverages, found in biographies, personal recollections, letters a. s. o. from the 16th to the 19th century are reviewed. As early as in the children's age alcoholic drinks are represented in 27%. There is a slight trend to a reduction of alcoholic drinks in the 19th century compared with three centures before. Remarks on tea and coffee and chocolate resp. cocoa are increasing in 19th century, especially in children. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/341684/
Abstract: Carnitine (vitamin BT) is a compound which is involved with lipid metabolism. This article deals with the carnitine content of foods and diet, the absorption, transport, storage, and excretion of carnitine in humans. The metabolic functions and biosynthesis of carnitine are also reviewed. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/341761/
Abstract: A series of 53 children admitted during a 20-month period to the Hospital for burns due to hot liquids is reported 88.6% were under three. 34 children were seen during spring and fall months. Most patients were recently burnt and in the majority of cases (27) burned surface was under 20%. l.v. fluids were used in 17 cases and management protocol included: Closed local care after the 3rd or 4th day with nitrofurazone cream and antibiotics only in selected cases. Mortality was 5.5% (three cases) due to acute renal failure at the 3rd, 5th and 10th days. 24.5% had a local infection in the first two weeks, gram negative bacteria being present in 75% of these cases. 33.2% (18 cases) required grafting. This was more frequently needed in boiling oil burns. In seven cases, grafting was necessary before the 30th day (average 23.2 days), and in the remaining patients after this time (average 42.1 days). Authors advise a strict prevention of acute rend failure and early grafting. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/341762/
Abstract: The antimicrobial activity of various proteins and other substances in milk and colostrum is discussed. These factors include antibodies, complement, lactoferrin and transferrin, lactoperoxidase and lysozyme. The possible importance of these factors in protecting the newborn infant against infectious diseases is discussed. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/341763/
Abstract: Two newborns with abdominal perforation during peritoneal dialysis are presented. The first probably before dialysis and the second iatrogenic. Both needed surgical intervention. Incidence in children in comparation with adults is discussed. Severe clinic complications of both patients that needed complete parenteral nutrition, mechanic ventilation and treatment of Candida sepsis are comented. Both survived without sequels in spite of severe complications. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/360197/
Abstract: Although the majority of patients with cardiomyopathy are in the category of primary or idiopathic cardiomyopathy, for which therapy is symptomatic and non-specific, there are a number of secondary forms of cardiomyopathy for which specific therapy is available, thus giving impetus to prompt and accurate diagnosis. Among inflammatory lesions, brucellosis, psittacosis and toxoplasmosis are examples. Treatable metabolic causes include thyrotoxicosis and thiamine deficiency, the latter as well as calorie-protein malnutrition are also preventable. There is presumptive evidence that the cardiomyopathy of haemochromatosis is benefited by repeated phlebotomies. Symptomatic relief of obstructive cardiomyopathy is achieved by beta-adrenergic blockade, although resection of obstructing myocardium still has a place. The therapeutic approach to the vast majority of cases of congestive cardiomyopathy is non-specific, comprising controlled activity, sodium restriction, digitalis and diuretics. Vasodilators and, occasionally, beta-adrenergic blockade may be beneficial. Pacemakers may be life-saving, whereas the place of anti-arrhythmics remains uncertain. Transplantation warrants further application. Valve replacement has little to offer. Primary prevention, comprising balanced nutrition, vaccines and genetic counselling, merits wider application. In individuals at risk or already afflicted, programmes of secondary prevention should include good nutrition, abstinence from alcohol and protection from drugs and toxins. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/360163/
Abstract: During acute intoxications rhabdomyolysis appear with a great clinical polymorphism. The muscular involvement is not always evident because of its shortness and latence. Practically the problem is one of localised muscle damage, hyperkaliema or acute renal insufficiency. The serum isoenzymes of CPK levels, the presence of myoglobinuria are necessary for the diagnosis. The most serious rhabdomyolysis depend on the added injury of respiratory muscles and myocardium. Many toxic substances can involve rhabdomyolysis but the most frequent ones are sedatives, carbonic oxyde, ethanol. Only the complications are treated. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/359968/
Abstract: In Germany alcohol is responsible for 40--60 per cent of cases with chronic or chronic relapsing pancreatitis. The histologic lesions for a long time remain clinically asymptomatic. Their degree depends on the duration and the total amount of alcohol which is ingested. Promoters of alcoholic damage to the pancraes are a high intake of fat and protein and a genetic disposition. Acute application of alcohol leads to an inhibition of pancreatic secretion when the entrance of gastric acid into the duodenum is prevented. Otherwise a weak stimulation occurs with release of secretin. Chronic application of alcohol after a few months abolishes the initially seen inhibition and leads to an increase of enzyme secretion of the gland. The raised concentration of protein in the pancreatic juice is the cause of precipitation of protein plugs, and thus probably leads to the alterations which are typical for chronic pancreatitis. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/360233/
Abstract: Studies on the effects of lithium on drinking, food intake, locomotor activity and aggression in rats are reviewed. Particular attention is paid to the dosage, concentration, route and schedule of lithium treatments. The effects of lithium on behavior are found to depend on the experimental methods. The main effects of lithium treatments on rat behavior are found to be prevention of the reoccurrence of certain behaviors, enhancement of intake of water and sodium chloride solutions, suppression of some types of spontaneous and drug-induced activity, production of hyperactivity when given together with MAO inhibitors, reduction of some types of aggressive behavior, enhancement of morphine analygesia and reduction of morphine intake. The relationship between the outcome of studies on behavior in rats given lithium and the use of lithium salts to treat human disorders is briefly discussed. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/360007/
Abstract: The current controversy concerning the role of glucagon in the pathogenesis of diabetes is reviewed. The traditional "unihormonal abnormality concept," namely, that all of the metabolic derangements of diabetes are the direct consequence of deficient insulin secretion or activity, and the newer so-called bihormonal abnormality hypothesis, proposing that the fullblown diabetic syndrome requires, in addition to the insulin abnormality, a relative glucagon excess, are scrutinized. The relationship of insulin deficiency to the A-cell malfunction of diabetes, the conflicting evidence concerning the essential role of glucagon in mediating the marked overproduction of glucose and ketones in severe insulin deficiency and the contribution of glucagon to the endogenous hyperglycemia of diabetics without insulin deficiency are examined. Finally, the possibility that therapeutic suppression of diabetic hyperglucagonemia may make possible better control of hyperglycemia than is presently attainable by conventional therapeutic methods is considered. It is concluded that (1) although insulin lowers glucagon levels, restoration to normal of the A-cell dysfunction of diabetes requires that plasma insulin levels vary appropriately with glycemic change; (2) that glucagon mediates the severe endogenous hyperglycemia and hyperketonemia observed in the absence of insulin; (3) that in diabetics in whom insulin is present but relatively fixed an increase in glucagon causes hyperglycemia and glycosuria; and (4) that glucagon suppression could be a potentially useful adjunct to conventional antihyperglycemic treatment of diabetics. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/360841/
Abstract: The effect of pregnancy on prescribing was assessed in a population of pregnant Medicaid recipients and two matched groups of control women. Of the 2,528 gravidas, 62 per cent received systemic legend drugs (excluding dietary supplements) during their pregnancies. White women and women 30 years of age and older were most likely to receive these medications. Systemic anti-infectives were the most frequently prescribed category of drugs (excluding dietary supplements). One fourth of the women received a narcotic-containing drug and 13 percent of the women received psychotropic drugs, most frequently diazepam. Barbiturates and narcotic-containing drugs were often "hidden" a fixed combination medication. In general, prescribing did not decrease as a result of pregnancy. This study and other studies reviewed here emphasize the need for comprehensive drug-use guidelines for physicians who care for pregnant women. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/360819/
Abstract: Patients on chronic hemodialysis may suffer from a latent protein deficiency, and therapy with essential amino acids has been recommended. In a double blind cross-over study, 13 hemodialysis patients received orally 15.7 g of essential amino acids daily over a 3-month period. Patients were on a liberal diet, containing 1 g of protein per kilogram of body weight per day. Hemodialysis was adequate. Therapy resulted in an increase in urea, uric acid, C3 c complement factor and a fall in C4. Lysine levels increased and phenylalanine fell. Malnutrition could not account for the observed metabolic changes, which are more likely due to uremic metabolic disturbances. A liberal diet of 1 g of protein per kilogram of body weight appears sufficient for patients on hemodialysis. Treatment with essential amino acids offers no advantage. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/361302/
Abstract: Studies in which the numbers of healed or unhealed ulcers and their correlation with symptoms are availabel are summarized in Table 1. A review of the data and inspection of the Table show that the correlation of GU or DU healing with symptomatic remission is generally poor. The reasons for this are unknown and reflect the very incomplete understanding of the mechanism of ulcer pain and of the pathways through which the pain is mediated. The pathogenesis of pain in GU or DU may be due to the action of acid and pepsin, or of bile, on the tissues exposed in the ulcer crater, to abnormal motility, to normal motility acting on inflamed tissue, to areas of inflammation surrounding the ulcer crater, or to a combination of these factors. The relative importance of each of these variables in DU or GU, or in individual patients (because the mechanism of pain may not be the same in each patient) is not known. Nor is it known how much the pathogenesis of ulcer pain is the result of local release of histamine, kinins, and prostaglandins. These biogenic factors are known to be associated with inflammation and produce, or enhance, somatic pain. Their importance in peptic ulcer in man needs to be studied. Relief of pain after neutralization or buffering of gastric contents with alkali or food suggests strongly that acid must play an important part in the pathogenesis of the ulcer symptoms. The rapidity with which relief of symptoms occurs points towards the direct involvement of hydrogen ions in at least one type of ulcer symptom. Lowering of intragastric acidity by histamine H2- receptor antagonists or high-dose alkali may contribute to the observed discrepancies between ulcer healing and the remission of pain, by creating an environment in the gastroduodenal lumen which favours symptomatic improvement, even in the presence of an unhealed crater. This idea, however, does not explain why there is a discordance between healing and symptoms in patients receiving placebo, or in those treated with other drugs, such as carbenoxolone sodium. In the absence of endoscopic evidence, the presence or absence of symptoms cannot be assumed to indicate with certainty the presence or the absence of a peptic ulcer. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/361347/
Abstract: Gliclazide is an oral hypoglycaemic agent which has been shown in animal models to reduce platelet adhesiveness. In this study, 50 patients with maturity onset diabetes treated with gliclazide (80 mg/day) were followed up for 6 months to 1 year to assess the effect on platelet adhesiveness and control of blood sugar. A significant fall in mean platelet adhesiveness from 29% before treatment to 19.5% after 1 year (p less than 0.001) was achieved without any deleterious effect on normal haemostasis. The drug was well tolerated and achieved a satisfactory control of blood sugar levels at the dosages used. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/361464/
Abstract: Since its description by Garrod, the concept of the "inborn errors of metabolism" has become a clinical reality that the physician cannot ignore. The aminoacidopathies represent a group historically notable in that they represent the first diseases recognized as metabolic in origin (alcaptonuria, albinism) and for which some measure of therapeutic success can be claimed. Dietary prophylaxis of the encephalopathy of phenylketonuria is a prominent example. Much progress has been made in the understanding of the aminoacidopathies that touch upon aspects as diverse as semiological study and prevention by pre- and neo-natal diagnosis. This brief overview presents the basic clinical, biochemical, genetic, physiopathological and therapeutic principles of these diseases. It provides representative examples of the diagnostic approach and draws particular attention to the need and the role of cross-disciplinary teamwork in the diagnosis and continuing care of the patient. While we wait for new methods of genetic correction, the main goal must be to prevent the clinical consequences of the metabolic defect. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/361463/
Abstract: Mazindol, a drug with tricyclic structure unrelated to amphetamine and other anorectic drugs, has been used as an anorectic agent in a double blind clinical trial at a dose of 2 mg/day for 12 week (mazindol v. s. placebo), associated with a 1000 calorie diet on 46 obese diabetic patients. Thirty seven patients completed the trial with no significant difference between the two groups in the drop-out population; mazindol was well tolerated. In the mazindol-treated group the mean weight loss was 13.5 kg (22.3%) which was significantly greater (p less than 0.001) than in the placebo treated group where the mean weight loss was 4.2 kg (9.8%). Comparing the two groups after the 12 week trial, decrease in fasting blood glucose, serum insulin and triglycerides was not significant. In the mazindol-treated group a significant decrease of serum cholesterol, triglycerides and of the mean area under the curve of insulinemia during the OGTT has been observed. In the placebo treated group only serum triglycerides decreased significantly. The variations of plasma insulin and serum cholesterol were found to be correlated to the magnitude of weight loss. In conclusion mazindol is an effective drug for weight loss on the whole well tolerated but without specific properties on metabolism. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/376770/
Abstract: Aspartame (3-amino-N-(alpha-carboxyphenethyl) succinamic acid, methyl ester; the methyl ester of aspartylphenylalanine, SC-18862) is hydrolyzed in the gut to yield aspartic acid, phenylalanine, and methanol. This review of the literature describes the metabolic paths followed by aspartate in its conversion to CO2 or its incorporation into body constituents. About 70 percent of 14C from [asp-14C]-aspartame is converted in the monkey to 14CO2. Some of the aspartate is converted at the intestinal mucosal level to alanine by decarboxylation. This amino acid may be oxidized to CO2 by entering the tricarboxylic acid cycle via pyruvate and acetyl CoA. In addition, transamination of aspartate to oxaloacetate permits this product also to enter the tricarboxylic acid cycle. Aspartate may also be incorporated into body constitutents such as other amino acids, proteins, pyrimidines, asparagine, and N-acetylaspartic acid. It is concluded that the aspartate moiety of aspartame is metabolized in a manner similar to that of dietary aspartic acid. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/376969/
Abstract: We have attempted to review some of the factors involved in host resistance and the variations in the individual responses to the infectious and noxious agents to which we are increasingly exposed. Few treatment modalities are available to favorably influence host resistance, but clearly, this approach to the treatment of liver disease represents an opportunity for the future. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/376922/
Abstract: A relatively small amount of bone tissue is present in the human body in view of the tissue's structural and chemical importance. The disparity between the constant appearance of mineralized bone matrix, regardless of source, under the electron microscope and the variability of previously reported analyses of bone specimens of a much larger size was disturbing and led to studies of the content and distribution of water in bone tissue and in whole bone specimens. Water in premineralized bone matrix is largely replaced by the non-crystalline (amorphous) and crystalline mineral phase without changes in the overall volume of bone matrix or that of whole bones, nor in the volume and position of collagen fibrils. This resistance to volume and fibril position change during mineralization is probably unique to bone tissue, and permitted critical water analyses of whole bone specimens of varying porosity. When marrow and bone tissue weight and volume analyses were compared with the specific gravity of whole bone specimens, constancy of the composition of bone tissue in these specimens was demonstrated. This result led to a concentration of our studies on the cells that synthesize and control this unique tissue. Currently, the investigations of this laboratory are oriented to study of the enzyme chemistry of isolated bone cells and of whole bone specimens, as well as the localization of matrix-bound and membrane-bound enzymes in bone tissue by histochemical techniques suitable for electron microscopy. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/377005/
Abstract: There seems little doubt that the disposal of a glucose load is progressively impaired during aging. The mechanism(s) for this alteration remains unclear. Five possibilities have been raised: (1) poor diet, (2) physical inactivity, (3) decreased lean body mass in which to store the carbohydrate load, (4) decreased insulin secretion, and (5) insulin antagonism. Although poor diet and physical inactivity may contribute to some of the abnormal glucose tolerance tests of the older population, these two factors do not provide a full explanation. Diminished lean body mass may play some role but there is almost certainly an additional effect due to aging. A few papers have suggested that glucose-induced insulin secretion may be impaired as the population ages, but the bulk of studies in this area conclude that normal or increased amounts of insulin are released by the pancreatic beta-cell during aging. If abnormalities of insulin secretion exist, either in degree or timing, they are subtle and would not seem sufficient to account for the great number of older subjects who manifest impaired glucose tolerance. The evidence for insulin antagonism seems the strongest but the data are certainly not conclusive. In actuality, the aging effect on carbohydrate metabolism may be heterogeneous in nature. Either some or all of these five factors may contribute to the aging effect to varying degrees in individual subjects. Alternatively, the glucose intolerance of aging may represent a heterogeneous group of disorders. In any event, until better methods to identify possible subgroups of these subjects and/or a marker for diabetes mellitus independent of glucose concentration become available, this problem will remain difficult to resolve. Based on the currently available data, it seems prudent to diagnose diabetes mellitus only if fasting hyperglycemia is present. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/377936/
Abstract: Hypercholesterolemic subjects in a metabolic ward were kept under uniform dietary conditions until constant levels of serum cholesterol were observed. Oral dosage with deoxycholate (1.5 to 3 g daily for a period of 4 to 10 weeks) resulted in a marked reduction of serum cholesterol concentration. Studies with 14C-labeled cholesterol demonstrated that deoxycholate administration decreased absorption of cholesterol from the human intestinal tract. In these subjects, the turnover rate of serum cholesterol was more rapid during therapy with deoxycholate than during control periods. Deoxycholate appeared to influence the intestinal flora as assessed indirectly by analysis of the types of neutral sterols eliminated with the feces. Decreased synthesis of cholesterol during deoxycholate administration uas demonstrated in a study with 14C-mevalonate. It is concluded that deoxycholic acid can have an important role in the regulation of cholesterol metabolism in humans. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/378042/
Abstract: The sera of 20 atopic patients, 10 with hypersensitivity symptoms upon ingestion of milk and 10 without such symptoms, were tested by a radioimmunoassay for the detection of IgE antibodies to whole bovine milk, betalactoglobulin (BL), enzymatic digests of BL and fractions thereof. While only 4/10 patients had IgE antibodies to undigested BL all 10 patients had IgE antibodies to BL digests. All controls gave negative results. These findings suggest that enzymatic digestion of BL may yield antigenic fractions which elicit IgE antibodies and that these antibodies would be missed if the undigested food protein were to be used solely in testing. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/377938/
Abstract: Unselected, consecutive surgical specimens from 120 women with cancer of the breast were subjected to histochemical assay for the presence of estrogen receptor. A fluoresceinated bovine serum albumin--estradiol conjugate was used that linked estradiol at position 17 and contained 5 mol fluorescein and 4 mol estradiol per mole albumin. Simultaneous competitive binding studies with excess unlabeled estradiol, diethylstilbestrol, and the antiestrogen nitromifene citrate were regularly performed. Results were compared to those obtained by the dextran-coated charcoal receptor assay. Three specimens were necrotic, two others thawed, and two lacked sufficient protein for biochemical analysis. One specimen did not contain tumor, and 11 others showed a predominant nuclear staining pattern. Nuclear receptor was not assayed biochemically. Comparison of results in the remaining 101 cases showed agreement in 92%. The precedure is uncomplicated, economical, and could be performed and interpreted in any pathology laboratory. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/377118/
Abstract: The literature contains studies on many causes of demyelination: Vascular occlusion--exogenous toxins--allergic reactions--and virus diseases. There remains, however, a small group of conditions which seems to have been ignored almost completely in discussions of cerebral demyelination. These consist of brain damage apparently resulting from some toxin liberated within the human body and not obtained from the outside. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/377488/
Abstract: Absolute amounts of cadmium (in milligrams) in the left kidney and concentrations of cadmium (micrograms per gram) in the liver were measured in vivo in 20 healthy adult male volunteers. Organ cadmium levels of smokers were significantly elevated above those of nonsmokers. No relationship was evident between body stores of cadmium (liver and kidney) and cadmium or beta 2-microglobulin in urine or blood. The average total body burden of cadmium in man at age 50 is estimated to be 19.3 milligrams for nonsmokers and 35.5 milligrams for smokers (38.7 pack-year smoking history). Biological half-time for the whole body was, on average, 15.7 years (10- to 33-year range). Dietary absorption was 2.7 micrograms per day. Cigarette smoking resulted in the absorption of 1.9 micrograms per pack. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/378318/
Abstract: A simple scheme of investigation and treatment to restore fertility in amenorrhoeic women is described. Fifty-nine patients with amenorrhoea not due to primary ovarian failure were treated variously as appropriate, mainly with clomiphene (25), bromocriptine (15), or human menopausal gonadotrophins (12), and six by diet to increase their weight. All ovulated, and by the end of the study 55 (93%) had conceived, 42 (71%) had delivered at least one surviving child, and five others (8%) were pregnant and awaiting delivery. Conception rates were 49% within two cycles of treatment and 66% within three cycles; using life-table method to standardise the cumulative conception rates by correcting for patients who did not continue as long as others in the study, the expected conception rate was 79% in six cycles, 94% in 12 cycles, and 98% after 16 cycles. The multiple pregnancy rate was 13% and abortion rate 22%. Delivery rate (for a viable baby) were 48% within 11 months of starting treatment and 53% within one year; expected rates were 76% in 18 months and 97% in two years. The results show that a relatively simple scheme of classifying amenorrhoeic disorders endocrinologically followed by treatment directed at inducing ovulation allows amenorrhoeic women without primary ovarian failure to achieve conception and delivery rates equal to those in normal women. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/378503/
Abstract: Phenytoin (diphenylhydantoin) is still the most commonly used anticonvulsant drug. It has certain physicochemical characteristics which make it liable to bioavailability problems. Due to the dose dependent metabolism of phenytoin and to its narrow therapeutic range even small changes in the bioavailability can cause major changes in serum phenytoin concentration and have serious clinical consequences. Numerous studies have demonstrated that there are products in general use with considerable differences in their bioavailiability. If the epilepsy is well controlled, a change from one phenytoin product to another should be avoided. Such a change might lead to phenytoin intoxication or to poor control of epilepsy, if the products do not have the same bioavailability. There seems to be no systematic difference in the bioavailability of phenytoin sodium and phenytoin acid, if products of high quality are used. On the other hand, various biopharmaceutical factors, e.g. particle size of phenytoin and the nature of excipients in the product, can have a marked effect on the oral absorption of phenytoin. Gastrointestinal diseases, the concomitant use of other drugs and dietary factors might also modify the bioavailability of phenytoin. The absorption of intramuscularly given phenytoin is rather slow and erratic. The existence of phenytoin products with different bioavailability is a serious practical problem which should be corrected as soon as possible. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/378502/
Abstract: Propranolol is completely absorbed after oral administration and widely distributed throughout tissues. Elimination occurs almost wholly by metabolic transformation in the liver and excretion of the resultant products in the urine. An active metabolite, 4-hydroxypropranolol and possibly other active compounds have been identified; the former only after oral administration. After intravenous administration, hepatic extraction is so efficient that drug clearance is dependent on liver blood flow. After oral administration, propranolol kinetics depend on both dose and duration of therapy, but hepatic extraction remains relatively high and leads in presystemic ('first-pass') elimination and low systemic availability. During continued administration, plasma concentrations vary quite widely due to genetic differences superimposed on which are certain constitutional factors, such as age, and environmental factors such as smoking, other drugs, and perhaps diet. Hepatic, renal, thyroid and some gastrointestinal diseases as well as hypertension, malnutrition and hypothermia may be associated with alterations in propranolol disposition, all of which are consistent with the pathophysiology of these diseases. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/378547/
Abstract: The effect of food processing on the biological availability of iron in iron-fortified foods is critically reviewed. Studies on changes in the chemistry of the iron in processed foods are examined. Various iron sources currently used in food fortification in the U.S. are defined with emphasis on their biological availabilities under various conditions. The availability of iron in foods depends upon numerous factors, most of which are not fully understood. A factor which is often overlooked is the interaction of the iron with the food during events such as cooking or processing. Chemical changes in the iron compounds occur which may correlate with changes in the biological availability. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/378241/
Abstract: The role of glucagon in regulating plasma lipid concentrations (nonesterified fatty acids, ketone bodies, and triglycerides) is reviewed. The effects of glucagon-induced insulin secretion upon this lipid regulation are discussed that may resolve conflicting reports in the literature are resolved. In addition, the unresolved problem concerning the pharmacologic versus physiologic effects of glucagon is stressed. Glucagon's role in stimulating lipolysis at the adipocyte serves two important functions. First, it provides plasma nonesterified fatty acids for energy metabolism and secondly, it ensures substrate for hepatic ketogenesis. In vitro, glucagon's lipolytic activity has been consistently observed, but in vivo, this activity has sometimes been obscured by the effects of glucagon-induced insulin secretion. Frequently, a biphasic response has been reported in which a direct lipolytic response is followed by a glucagon-induced insulin suppression of plasma nonesterified fatty acid concentration. When the glucagon-induced insulin secretion has been controlled by various in vivo techniques, glucagon's lipolytic activity in vivo has frequently been demonstrable. In the 1960s, in vitro liver perfusion experiments demonstrated that glucagon enhanced hepatic ketogenesis independent of glucagon's lipolytic activity. However, this direct effect of glucagon on the hepatocyte was not universally accepted because of conflicting reports in the literature. Failure to observe an in vitro ketogenic effect of the hormone in some studies may have been due to suboptimal experimental conditions. Certain factors are now known to influence the ketogenic response, such as the concentration of fatty acids in the media and the nutritional status of the animal. Under optimal in vitro conditions with liver preparations from fed animals, the ketogenic response to physiologic concentrations of glucagon has been demonstrated. However, further study is necessary to define the quantitative ketogenic role of the hormone. In spite of this early in vitro work, glucagon was not definitely shown to be ketogenic in vivo (independent of fatty acid availability) both in the rat and in diabetic man until 1975. Since these observations, several reports have confirmed the ketogenic action of glucagon in vivo by direct hepatic catheterization experiments. Glucagon's role in decreasing hepatic triglyceride synthesis and secretion in vitro has been repeatedly shown but the mechanism is unresolved. This lipid regulatory action of glucagon has been more difficult to demonstrate in vivo because of the many variables that affect triglyceride synthesis. Under specific experimental conditions, however, glucagon has been shown to decrease plasma triglyceride concentration in man at both physiologic and pharmacologic concentrations. Hepatic catheterization experiments have also confirmed this effect in man. The regulation of lipids by glucagon fits well into its role as a stress hormone... 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/378546/
Abstract: The nutritional value of milk as an important source of energy, high-quality protein, calcium, and riboflavin has been recognized for many years. Currently, the widespread use and promotion of milk in the U.S. as well as developing countries has been questioned. This review examines the nutrient composition of dairy products, factors that account for variability in composition of milk, milk processing, preservation, quality control, and contaminants (such as minerals, radionuclides antibiotics, microorganisms and their metabolites, herbicides, and insecticides) in milk. Consumption patterns for milk and evidence for its nutritional value, especially in children, are presented. Milk consumption has been related to disease or conditions such as atherosclerosis, milk allergy, lactose intolerance, anemia, dental problems, and others. Recent recommendations for dietary changes for individuals in the U.S. and other developed countries could affect the use of milk. In addition, the use of feeding programs in the U.S. and developing countries which are based primarily on milk has been criticized. The preparation of new types of milk designed to offset certain difficulties encountered with cow's milk are now being evaluated in humans. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/393731/
Abstract: Ten women with vesicular hand eczema and delayed hypersensitivity to nickel were given 0.5 mg nickel supplements to their diets. The double-blind controlled supplements were given on Monday and Tuesday of each week for at least 1 month. The nickel supplement was lower than that used in previous studies, and only one subject had reproducible flaring of her vesicular dermatitis. We conclude that dietary restriction of nickel is not warranted based on nickel supplement studies, but nickel's role in hand eczema could be clarified by depleting nickel from body stores with chelating agents. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/393645/
Abstract: The safety, short-term and long-term efficacy of appetite-suppressant drugs are reviewed. Seven drugs widely available on prescription under the UK national health service are discussed. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/393644/
Abstract: A controlled intervention trial, with the purpose of testing the hypothesis that the incidence of coronary heart disease (CHD) could be decreased by the use of serum-cholesterol-lowering (SCL) diet, was carried out in 2 mental hospitals near Helsinki in 1959--71. The subjects were hospitalized middle-aged men. One of the hospitals received the SCL diet, i.e. a diet low in saturated fats and cholesterol and relatively high in polyunsaturated fats, while the other served as the control with a normal hospital diet. Six years later the diets were reversed, and the trial was continued another 6 years. The use of the SCL diet was associated with markedly lowered serum-cholesterol values. The incidence of CHD, as measured by the appearance of certain electrocardiographic patterns and by the occurrence of coronary deaths, was in both hospitals during the SCL-diet periods about half that during the normal-diet periods. An examination of a number of potential confounding variables indicated that the changes in them were small and failed to account for the considerable reduction in the incidence of CHD. It is concluded that the use of the serum-cholesterol-lowering diet exerted a substantial preventive effect on CHD. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/394152/
Abstract: The ultimate object of all types of dietary management before the introduction of insulin was to prevent emaciation and death: the consequences of metabolic derangements due to lack of insulin. Now, while dietary therapy continues to be important in minimizing the requirement for endogenous insulin or in balancing administered insulin, the major objects are changing to prevention of large vessel and microvascular disease. The next decade will probably see a more widespread introduction of diets containing a lower proportion of energy derived from fat. The increased carbohydrate intake will almost inevitably result in increased dietary fibre intake. Whether David Jenkins' Lente carbohydrate foods (those containing viscous unabsorbable polysaccharides) will prove to be of lasting value is not yet known. Since galactomannans occur in legumes perhaps we should consider the possibility of diets containing large proportions of legumes: a twentieth century 'Legume cure'? If this should prove of value it would not have excited ancient Indian physicians who wrote (in the Caraka-Samita) of their use of legumes in the treatment of glycosuria, at least as early as the first century AD, before Aretaeus had applied the term diabetes. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/394594/
Abstract: In personal recollections, letters a.s.o. written by 23 authors in the sixteenth to the nineteenth century are to be found 52 remarks on home remedies or prescriptions for children or juveniles. It seems that they belong more to dietetics than to pharmacotherapy. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/394563/
Abstract: Five methods for puerperal lactation inhibition were assessed in a randomized fashion. The 90 women were divided into five groups. Four of these received a pharmacologic treatment: oral stilbestrol (15 mg dd for 5 days), a diuretic compound (bendroflumethazide 15 mg dd for 5 days) by mouth, oral bromocriptine (5 mg dd for 14 days), or an intramuscular injection containing estradiol (10 mg and testosterone (200 mg) esters administered immediately after delivery. To the women in the remaining group only physical methods were applied (breast support and local infra-red waves) and they served as controls. Prolactin plasma concentrations were determined daily for five consecutive days and showed a correlation with the clinical effectiveness of the various treatment schedules. While bromocriptine reduced and stilbestrol augmented prolactin levels, both types of treatment were equally effective in preventing lactation during the observation period. Treatment with a diuretic compound or with an injection of steroids, though less effective than the first two regimens, was nevertheless significantly more efficacious than physical treatment. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/394602/
Abstract: Determination of the levels of particular trace elements preserved in bone provides a potential pathway for reconstructing the diet of extinct primate species and archaic human groups. Strontium is one of the most useful trace elements for dietary reconstruction but several empirical properties of strontium must be considered during the interpretation of results. (1) Strontium is distributed unevenly throughout the physical environment. (2) Plants, in general, do not discriminate against strontium. (3) During ionic transfer across biological membranes, strontium is discriminated against by terrestrial vertebrates. (4) It is unlikely that strontium would be selectively removed from bone mineral during diagenesis. A particular difficulty in trace element analysis is caused by interaction between analytical technique and sample matrix. To assess this problem the skeletal population from Chalcatzingo was analyzed by two techniques: atomic absorption spectrometry and neutron activation analysis. The results from the two techniques compared favorably indicating that the pattern of bone strontium levels could be accepted as an accurate reflection of the distribution of bone strontium within the population. After demonstrating the internal accuracy of the results, the bone strontium level and position of social rank within Chalcatzingo were compared. Ethnographic and archaeological evidence on chiefdoms and states indicate that dietary differences in the amount of meat consumed occur between social ranks. The relative social ranks were reconstructed by using a "pattern analysis" of the burial goods accompanying each individual. The individuals accompanied by jade had the lowest mean bone strontium level (X = 532). Those individuals buried with a shallow dish had a slightly higher level (X = 635). A third group, which had no grave goods, had the highest mean bone strontium level (X = 700) which suggests that their diet contained less meat than was available to the rest of the community. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/394917/
Abstract: Tests have demonstrated that current enrichment methods may fail to detect low levels of some clinical strains of Yersinia enterocolitica inoculated into meats and oysters and need improvement. The results of cold enrichment with phosphate and tripolyphosphate buffers were very poor and the sensitive clinical strain failed to grow in Wauters' MgCl2 broth. Twenty typical clinical strains of Y. enterocolitica belonging to Nilehn's biotypes 2, 3, and 4 had the ability to invade HeLa cells tissue culture but none of the 52 atypical clinical and food strains belonging to Nilehn's biotype 1 or rhamnose-positive were invasive. Although temperature sensitive, this test is reproducible and useful for screening noninvasive isolates. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/438754/
Abstract: A multidisciplinary audit evaluating the quality of care of patients with a primary diagnosis of diabetes mellitus was performed at St. Mary's Hospital in Grand Rapids, Michigan. The audit served to evaluate the treatment and care of diabetic patients, in both the inpatient and ambulatory care settings, and also to identify interaction problems involving patient care among physicians, nurses, dieticians, and social workers. Analysis of the data indicated that each discipline rendered adequate patient care. As other published audits have also indicated, this multidisciplinary audit revealed that documentation of services is frequently lacking and that communication between the involved disciplines was less than desirable. The audit disclosed a need to educate the hospital staff (medical and nursing) as to the role and function of the Social Services Department. As a result of this audit, definite measures have been instituted in each participating department in an attempt to further upgrade the quality of medical care and improve interdepartmental communication and cooperation. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/438864/
Abstract: Cytoplasmic accumulation of hemosiderin was observed within astrocytes and neurons as well as in other phagocytes associated with old encephalomalacia. The first patient was 3 years old when she died with malnutrition and superimposed infection. A cortical infarct had been caused by an old thrombus in a small artery. The second case was a 9-year-old girl who had old encephalomalacia in the pineal region after extirpation of a pineoloma. The third patient was a 22-year-old man who had a cortical infarct from an embolus associated with chronic rheumatic endocarditis. Granules of hemosiderin had accumulated within the perikaryon of many astrocytes and other phagocytes in all cases, and in a few neurons in the second instance. Review of the literature reveals that cytoplasmic accumulation of particulate matter has been described infrequently with regard to neuroepithelial derivatives. Our findings indicate that astrocytes and neurons as well as derivations of mesenchyme may act as phagocytes of old blood. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/438900/
Abstract: High-protein (11.0%, IR480-5-9) and low-protein (7.1%, IR32) milled rices were compared with casein as a control when fed as the main source of dietary N to eight apparently normal Filipino children, 1.5 to 2.0 years of age. Daily diets were formulated to contain 250 mg N and 100 kcal/kg body weight. Apparent digestibility of 60.0% for high-protein rice was lower than for low-protein rice (66.2%), and higher values of 76.8 and 80.8% were obtained for the two casein control diets. Corresponding apparent retentions were similar for the two rices, at 23.4 and 26.9%, respectively, as compared to 25.0 and 38.6% for the two casein control diets. These results support previous data on children fed non-isonitrogenous rice-based diets indicating that an increase in protein content of milled rice results in only a slight decrease in its protein quality. The results were similar to those obtained with Peruvian children on a similar protocol. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/438706/
Abstract: The binding of oestradiol to a nuclear fraction extracted from human breast carcinomatous tissue was demonstrated. The material, which was extracted with KCl, sedimented at 3--4S and bound oestradiol with high affinity (dissociation constant approximately 2 X 10(-10) mol/l). Oestriol, diethylstilboestrol and 5 alpha-dihydrotestosterone (100-fold excesses) competed with [3H]oestradiol for the binding sites (binding inhibited by 89 +/- 8 (S.D.), 92 +/- 6 and 57 +/- 8% respectively), whereas progesterone and cortisol (100-fold excesses) did not (binding suppressed by 5 +/- 5 and 2 +/- 3% respectively). Similar competition patterns were found for cytoplasmic material which bound oestradiol. The binding occurred at 4 degrees C and was therefore considered to be a measure of the amount of binding material unoccupied by endogenous oestrogen, Unoccupied binding sites for oestradiol in the nucleus and cytoplasm were measured in 35 samples of breast carcinomatous tissue using sucrose gradient centrifugation. In 17 out of 35 tumorus, unoccupied nuclear and cytoplasmic 8S and 4S binding sites could be detected. Three out of 35 tumours contained unoccupied nuclear binding sites and 4S cytoplasmic binding sites. Nuclear binding sites only were found in two out of 35 tumours. Unoccupied nuclear binding sites were not detected in 13 out of 35 tumours and ten of these tumours also did not contain unoccupied cytoplasmic binding sites. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/438635/
Abstract: Three Biri smokers with multicentric primary metachronous squamous cell carcinomas of the upper alimentary tract are presented. The susceptibility of the tissues of the upper alimentary tract to multiple malignancies, and the carcinogenic effect of radiation and Biri smoke on these tissues, are discussed. We have tried to assess the role of continuous Biri smoking in the production of a second malignancy of the upper food passages in patients who received radiotherapy for their first tumour. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/438830/
Abstract: During a four year peirod, 51 cases of Wernicke's encephalopathy were diagnosed at necropsy, an incidence of 1.7% of all necropsies performed at the Royal Perth Hospital and by the Perth City coroner. Only seven had been diagnosed during life. Many of the patients died suddenly and unexpectedly, apparently as a result of haemorrhagic brainstem lesions, typical of acute Wernicke's encephalopathy, since no other cause of death was found. There was a high incidence of epilepsy and four patients were hypothermic. The diagnosis of Wernicke's encephalopathy may be missed at necropsy unless the brain is examined histologically. Cerebral atrophy and ventricular dilatation were common findings. This is a more common disease than is generally recognised, one which can be readily treated and, more importantly, prevented by adequate nutrition. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/438901/
Abstract: A non-invasive method has been developed for measuring milk intake of suckling mice under physiological conditions. This method was used to determine whether genetically obese (ob/ob) mice are hyperphagic at 10 and 15 days of age. Lactating dams were injected with tritiated water (3H2O), which equilibrated in body water within 30 minutes. A constant specific activity of 3H2O was maintained over a 24-hour period by provision of 3H2O in drinking water. Tritium accumulation in body water of pups was proportional to their milk intake. After 24 hours, pups were removed from the dam, weighed, and blood samples (less than 10 microliters) obtained for assay of plasma 3H content by liquid scintillation counting. Body water content was computed from body weight. The composition of mouse milk taken from dams on days 10 and 15 of lactation was analyzed both volumetrically and gravimetrically. Water content was 68 to 69%; lipid content was 20% on day 10, 17% on day 15. At 10 days, mean milk intake was 0.96 ml, independent of litter size. At 15 days, intake per pup tended to decrease, from 1.4 to 0.8 ml, with increasing litter size. Using this method we have established that under physiological conditions ob/ob mice, which were identified as such at 4 to 5 weeks of age, do not have increased milk consumption at either 10 or 15 days of age. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/439087/
Abstract: The amount of urea in the urine acutely decreases when dietary protein is restricted. This change in urinary urea nitrogen can be represented satisfactorily by the urea nitrogen/total nitrogen (UN/TN) ratio or the UN/creatinine nitrogen (UN/CN) ratio. These determinations are apparently effective tools for simply and objectively describing the recent protein intake of pregnant women. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/439502/
Abstract: Diethyl-HIDA, a new hepatobiliary radiopharmaceutical labeled with 99mTc, was used in the preoperative diagnosis of biliary atresia and in the postoperative evaluation of hepatic-porto-enterostomy function. The good results obtained in the four first cases suggest extensive use of the method, with the aim of a more precocious and more attendable diagnosis. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/439249/
Abstract: Eighty patients with proved calcium urolithiasis participated in an outpatient study designed to define the most likely metabolic problem related to the cause of the stone disease. Diagnostic categories included absorptive hypercalciuria (33 patients), renal leak hypercalciuria (20 patients), hypomagnesiumuria (27 patients), hyperuricemia and hyperuricuria (16 patients), hyperoxaluria (15 patients), normal stone-former (4 patients), renal tubular acidosis (2 patients) and suspicion of hyperparathyroidism (7 patients). Of the 80 patients 40 had more than 1 defect. Patients with a high suspicion of hyperparathyroidism were excluded from the study. Based on these criteria treatment plans incorporating medications, diet or both were instituted. Of 21 patients observed for greater than 2 years 90 per cent have shown no new stone disease. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/440877/
Abstract: Two cases of lactobezoar formation were seen in premature low-birth-weight infants in a 24 cal/oz formula fortified with medium-chain triglycerides and glucose polymers given by continuous nasogastric infusion. Medical management included cessation of oral feedings and increased hydration and led to a rapid dissolution of the problem. The use of this preparation in small low-birth-weight infants is not recommended as an initial formula, and it should only be used when oral feedings have been well tolerated in a growing premature infant. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/440820/
Abstract: Three groups of 30 Greek neonates each (an adoptive group from the Metera orphanage, a lower-class group, and a middle-class group) were evaluated at days 1, 5, and 10 after birth using a behavioral scale of 21 items and a neurologic evaluation of 16 items. Behaviors were examined for group differences and group-by-age recovery curves were determined during the first ten days. Significant differences were found in the separate items and items grouped to reflect interactive, motor, and state behavioral dimensions. The adoptive babies at the Metera orphanage generally performed the most poorly. This difference seems not only to reflect intrauterine differences, especially in regard to nutrition, but to point to the likelihood of eliciting less than optimal responses from future environments. The middle-class group had the worst scores on physiologic items and were similar to the Metera babies in having initially depressed interactive, motor, and state behavior. Improvement in these areas over ten days suggested that temporary effects of maternal medication caused the poor scores. The recovery curves of the infants pointed to the important effects of such perinatal variables as maternal medication on early neonatal behavior. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/440804/
Abstract: A 5-month-old infant had an unusual combination of clinical signs and symptoms. These consisted of irritability, dystonia, lack of head control, grimacing, opisthotonos, choreoathetoid movements, delayed development, and severe metabolic acidosis. Metabolic investigation by gas-liquid chromatography/mass spectrometry detected urinary organic acids. This confirmed the diagnosis of L-glutaric aciduria. The concentration of L-glutaric acid in the patient's plasma was 2.5 mg/dl (normal range, 0 to 0.1 mg/dl), and in the patient's urine was 4.6 mg/mg of creatinine (normal range, 0 to 0.05 mg/mg of creatinine), but the concentration was not elevated in the plasma and urine of the infant's parents nor of two other family members. No glutaryl-CoA dehydrogenase activity was found in leukocytes taken from the patient. Three of the four family members, including the parents, demonstrated 38%, 42%, and 42% activity, respectively, compared with the activity of normal controls. These findings are consistent with an autosomal recessive disorder involving the metabolism of glutaryl-CoA to crotonyl-Co-a. Dietary restriction was instituted on two separate occasions. First, a low protein diet of 1.6 gm/kg of body weight per day was given, then a low lysine intake of 50 mg/kg/day. These dietary manipulations caused a decrease in the plasma and urine concentrations of L-glutaric acid and beta-hydroxyglutaric acid. However, no effect on the clinical manifestations of the disease was noted. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/455045/
Abstract: No coherent theory has been advanced to explain either the particular localization of the myelinolytic lesions of central pontine myelinolysis or their pathogenesis. However, several lines of evidence support the generalization that the centre of the basis pontis has a special susceptibility to a metabolic fault. The constancy of localization of the lesion and its bilateral symmetry are the very attributes that characterize other metabolic (nutritional) disorders, such as the assymmetrical degeneragion of the papillomacular bundles within the optic nerves and tracts in deficiency amblyopia and the specific affection of the paraventricular regions in the Wernicke-Korsakoff syndrome. And clinically, the frequent occurrence of central pontine myelinolysis in a setting of severe metabolic derangement, particularly of the serum sodium, points in the same direction. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/455649/
Abstract: We report quantitative data on beta-glucuronidase- and sulfatase-hydrolyzable conjugates of homovanillic acid, 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid, p-hydroxyphenylacetic acid, and vanillic acid in the urine of 20 apparently normal and healthy control persons and of three patients with neuroblastoma. We used organic solvent extraction and capillary gas chromatography. There was considerable person-to-person variation in the conjugation percentages calculated. Mean conjugated percentages of the four compounds for 16 normal healthy persons 2.5--40 years of age were, respectively, 12%, 33%, 14%, and 35%. For newborns and patients with neuroblastoma, these percentages were somewhat different. Increased amounts of vanillic acid were found in the urine of the patients with neuroblastoma, but results of a small metabolic study in rats suggest that this increase most probably is of dietary origin. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/455781/
Abstract: Blastogenic responses of normal human peripheral blood lymphocytes cultured in media supplemented with serum from children with kwashiorkor were, on average, 47.7% of those observed when the same cells were cultured in the presence of normal AB serum. Incorporation of radioactive uridine was also diminished in the presence of normal AB serum. Incorporation of radioactive uridine was also diminished in the presence of kwashiorkor serum indicating that lectin-induced RNA synthesis was also affected. The kwashiorkor serum effect was not due to a cytotoxic action nor could it be attributed to the presence of saccharides or other inhibitors of the inducing lectins. Mixing experiments showed that kwashiorkor serum was not inhibitory, but that it lacked factors present in normal serum that are required for optimal lymphocyte blastogenesis. The deficiency of these factors could largely be rectified by supplementing kwashiorkor serum with an ultrafiltrate of normal serum containing components with molecular weights of less than 500 Daltons. We conclude that nutritional deprivation of severity sufficient to cause kwashiorkor leads to a deficiency of low molecular weight lymphocyte growth factors. This lack may contribute to the immunodeficiency associated with the disease. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/455927/
Abstract: Reduction of bacterial dose and support of host defense mechanisms are paramount in the prevention of infections. When infection is established, aggressive search for its cause and extent is necessary. Vigorous nonoperative (antibiotic, nutritional) and operative therapies are needed to eradicate infection and to salvage life and limb. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/456004/
Abstract: Thirteen patients with significant hemorrhage, severe thrombocytopenia, and megaloblastic bone marrows are described. Unusual features of this problem included its acute onset, frequent absence of the typical peripheral blood changes of megaloblastic anemia, normal serum B12 levels, and serum folates which were often not clearly abnormal. Most patients were critically ill and common clinical features included reduced dietary intake, renal failure, renal dialysis, the postoperative state, and sepsis. These clinical features, the laboratory findings, and a platelet increase in most patients after folate therapy lead to the conclusion that this problem is probably due to acute folic acid deficiency. Possible explanations for the atypical laboratory findings include the acuteness of onset, recent blood transfusion therapy, and impaired folate utilization. This problem may be relatively common. Because of its potential clinical importance, rapid onset, and attendent diagnostic difficulties, prophylactic folic acid is recommended in the clinical setting described. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/456144/
Abstract: After Whipple operations, follow-up examinations were conducted under hospital conditions in order to investigate the function of the remainder of the pancreas and the extent to which general health was adversely affected. General parameters such as vocational rehabilitation, history of pain, and weight were analyzed, as well as chemistry related to the severity of pancreatic malassimilation, e.g., stool weight, stool fat contents, fat utilization, chymotrypsin in stool, and PABA test. An exocrine pancreatic insufficiency was found in 80% of patients, but this was easily manageable using medications, sometimes in combination with a MCT fat diet. Subclinical diabetes mellitus was shown in 80% of patients using glucose tolerance tests. However, clinical manifestations of diabetes did not occur. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/456231/
Abstract: Basal and food-stimulated gastrin were measured in 16 patients with duodenal ulcer before and during long-term maintenance therapy with 400 mg cimetidine twice daily. Basal gastrin (mean +/- SE) rose significantly from 27.5 +/- 3.1 pmol/liter precimetidine to 32.8 +/- 2.1, 37.2 +/- 2.6, and 38.5 +/- 3.3 pmol/liter at 1, 3, and 6 months, respectively. The total integrated gastrin response to a protein meal was 1.67 +/- 0.18 nmol/liter/120 min pre-, and 2.54 +/- 0.35, 3.29 +/- 0.3, and 4.36 +/- 0.4 nmol/liter/120 min at 1, 3, and 6 months, respectively. These increases were significantly higher at each time period. This study has thus demonstrated a progressive increase in both basal and food-stimulated gastrin during cimetidine therapy, and this increase could theoretically lead to an increase in gastric acid secretion following cessation of cimetidine. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/456256/
Abstract: Abnormal glucose tolerance was found in 30 of 100 patients with endogenous hypertriglyceridaemia (74 males, 26 females, age 45.9 +/- 11.4 years, Broca index 116 +/- 25%; 44 type II b, 7 type III and 49 type IV hyperlipoproteinaemia). In 19 cases the abnormal glucose tolerance was discovered during treatment with diet and, if necessary, lipid-lowering substances for an average of 5.8 +/- 2.8 years. Compared with the normal population there was in these patients an 8- to 10-fold increase in the incidence of abnormal glucose tolerance. Therapy-induced lowering of the serum triglyceride concentration was followed by an improvement of the abnormal glucose tolerance. The "antidiabetic" effect of hyperlipidaemia treatment was only slightly improved by concurrent weight reduction. These results indicate that the treatment of hyperlipidaemia in patients with endogenous hypertriglyceridaemia is of importance in the prevention of diabetes. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/456307/
Abstract: The Institute of Nutrition and Food Technology (INTA) of the University of Chile was established in 1976. Its functions are, among others, to study the country's nutritional problems, conduct research into measures for improving the nutritional status of the community, and train researchers and professionals, technical, and auxiliary staff in the nutrition field. Since 1977 the Institute has operated as an associated center of the United Nations University (UNU) in the area of human needs and, as such, carries out research in food and nutrition problems, provides training and education to UNU fellows, collaborates in the establishment of a worldwide network of institutions interested in the problem of world hunger, and advises UNU on the conduct of occupational training and research programs. This article refers more specifically to the teaching functions of INTA and describes its undergraduate and graduate activities and pedagogical training for nutrition instructors. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/456404/
Abstract: The effect of food on bioavailability of indobufen tablets was investigated in 6 healthy volunteers. Subsequently, the same subjects took 100 mg b.i.d. for 7 days. Plasma levels and urinary excretion of indobufen were determined by GLC. Platelet aggregation induced by several concentrations of adrenaline was determined turbidimetrically at various times after the first and last doses. The absorption of indobufen tablets was not substantially impaired by the presence of food in the GI tract, although peak plasma levels and AUCs were slightly reduced after food. Pharmacokinetic analysis of plasma and urinary levels of indobufen did not indicate any change in drug disposition after repeated dosing. Adrenaline-induced platelet aggregation was markedly inhibited for up to 12 h after the first dose and the intensity and duration of this effect did not change after repeated administration. A twice-daily dosing appears suitable for clinical trials. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/456629/
Abstract: Hospital and clinic charts for 100 patients with diagnosed Mllerian anomalies were reviewed. Reproductive history, type of therapy, and treatment results for those patients and for another 44 with a history of exposure to diethylstilbestrol and abnormal hysterosalpingographic findings were recorded and evaluated. The anomaly most frequently associated with reproductive failure was the septate uterus. A new classification, based on degree of failure of normal development, was used in separating the anomalies into groups with similar clinical manifestations, treatment, and prognosis for fetal salvage. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/405195/
Abstract: Parenteral administration of hydrocarbons is particularly indicated after heavy trauma or operations. In this case, fructose and the sugar substitutes sorbitol and xylitol play an important role as they can be metabolized independently from insulin. In this comprehensive review, the objectives and goals of parenteral nutrition as well as the metabolic processes of sugar substitutes in the human organism and their effects and the tolerances are discussed. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/405101/
Abstract: The special biology and behavior of the child make nutrition an even more important adjunct to cancer therapy than is true for the adult. The time has come to add nutritional therapy routinely to our other modes of therapy: surgery, radiotherapy, chemotherapy, and immunotherapy. But it should be done in the same way other modalities are added, i.e., with continued prospective and retrospective review of the data to optimize the approach to the child. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/405194/
Abstract: The metabolisms of the sugar substitutes fructose, sorbitol and xylitol and their interdependence with the metabolism of glucose are demonstrated. The metabolic characteristics of these substitutes are discussed with regard to therapeutical utilization. Differences between oral and parenteral administration are shown and finally dosage guidelines for parenteral administration are established on the basis of the different metabolic effects depending on the administered dose. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/405308/
Abstract: The paralytic ileus, poor nutritional state, and related complications that often develop following serious serious abdominal surgery have traditionally been accepted as unavoidable. Now, a nasogastric decompression and feeding tube is availabe that usually prevents paralytic ileus and also provides a complete liquid diet starting immedicately after the operation, thus speeding wound healing and recivery. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/405403/
Abstract: In an aseptic microbiological assay of folate compounds and their breakdown compounds, using Lactobacillus casei, Streptococcus faecalis, and Pediococcus cerevisiae, 4a-hydroxy-5methyl-4,5,6,7-tetrahydrofolate and 5-methyl-5,8-dihydrofolate were inactive under all conditions to all three organisms and 5-methyl-5,6-dihydrofolate was inactive unless ascorbate was present in the incubation medium, and then only to L. casei. 5-Methyltetrahydrofolate was active only for L. casei, and activity in purified samples to S. faecalis was due to trace amounts of folic acid. Analysis of S. faecalis values in the serum in normal subjects and in patients with various disorders showed that levels of 10-formyltetrahydrofolate are raised in coeliac disease, leukaemia, rheumatoid arthritis, and schizophrenia. 5-Methyltetrahydrofolate is readily absorbed by normal human subjects and by patients with pernicious anaemia but poorly absorbed by patients with coeliac disease or leukaemia. 5-Methyl-5,6-dihydrofolate was quickly absorbed by normal human subjects, being reflected by a considerably raised level of 5-methyltetrahydrofolate in serum when sodium bicarbonate was given by mouth before the 5-methyl-5,6-dihydrofolate. These higher levels were comparable to those in patients with pernicious anaemia after oral administration of 5-methyl-5,6-dihydrofolate. Oral 5-methyl-5,8-dihydrofolate and 4a-hydroxy-5-methyl-tetrahydrofolate did not appear as microbiologically active folates in the serum. The findings of this study suggest that the availability for biological utilisation of the major dietary folate compounds will depend on the amount of gastric acidity and of ascorbate in the intestinal chyme. Many may be unavailable for metabolic utilization in the body. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/405420/
Abstract: One hundred and thiry-three vanilla slices, purchased from shops in the West Yorkshire Metropolitan County, were examined to determine the numbers and types of bacteria present at the time of purchase. The surface colony count at 37 degrees C was greater than 10(3)/g in 67/133 (50%) of the samples examined, Bacillus cereus being found at that concentration in 21.8%, coliform bacilli including E. coli in 5.3%, Staphylococcus aureus in 3-0% and Streptococcus faecalis in 0-8%. Thirty-four strains of B. cereus were serotyped and 11 (32%) of these were typable with the sera available. Preparation of custard mixed in the laboratory suggests that the milk or milk powder used in the mix may be the major source of B. cereus in the final product. Many of the present methods of manufacture, distribution and storage allow organisms present in the custard at manufacture the opportunity to multiply and possibly reach numbers which present a risk of food poisoning. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/405567/
Abstract: Coincidence of chronic renal failure and diabetes mellitus brings with it serious therapeutic problems, especially in dietetic treatment. It is not possible to wish to do justice to all the therapeutic principles of the text books to the same extent. The condition of renal failure with its demands takes precedence in all cases. But if the renal disease has not yet led to a perceptible retention of normal urinary constituents in the serum, no specific dietary measures are necessary. In these cases, the diabetic diet is proceded with in the usual manner. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/405443/
Abstract: A quantitative immunodiffusion assay demonstrated Lp(a) lipoprotein in 91% (911 of 1000) of subjects. In order to quantitate Lp(a) in all plasma, a sensitive and specific double antibody radioimmunoassay was developed. The between-assay coefficient of variation was 8%. Lp(a) levels by radioimmunoassay were highly correlated with those obtained by the less sensitive radial immunodiffusion method (r = 0.98, n = 51). All but one of the 89 Lp(a) "negative" subjects by immunodiffusion had detectable levels of Lp(a) by radioimmunoassay. The one subject without detectable Lp(a) had abetalipoproteinemia (without detectable apolipoprotein B by radioimmunoassay). Furthermore, Lp(a) was detected in all three non-human primates examined: patas monkey, baboon, and pig-tail monkey. Quantitation of Lp(a) levels in 90 male myocardial infarction (MI) survivors and their spouses showed that the distribution of Lp(a) levels of MI survivors was significantly higher above the 50th percentile cut-point (P < 0.02) and exceeded that of the spouses. Furthermore, the Lp(a) distribution at and above the 50th percentile for the MI survivors who had an MI at age <50 (n = 36) was shifted to values higher than those having an MI at age >50. Thus, high levels of Lp(a) may be associated with premature coronary disease. We conclude that Lp(a) is present in all individuals with apolipoprotein B and that apolipoprotein B appears necessary for the plasma transport of the Lp(a) lipoprotein. Consistent with this hypothesis, quantitative immunochemical precipitation of (125)I-Lp(a) indicated that essentially all individual molecules of six purified Lp(a) preparations contain both the Lp(a) antigen and apolipoprotein B. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/405572/
Abstract: According to the present studies it is shown that arginine ketoglutarate in sufficiently high dosage (3x3 g daily by mouth) produces a significant lowering of plasma ammonia and free serum phenols with a high-protein diet in patients with liver cirrhosis, compared to a previous day without this substance. The ammonia reduction can be explained by a significant increase in urea synthesis, measured by the urea nitrogen content of the 24-hour urine. The simultaneous lowering of pathologically raised serum levels of free phenols can be explained by an improved oxidative decomposition of these substances. No stimulation of insulin secretion worthy of note occurred after oral administration of 9 g arginine ketoglutarate. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/405742/
Abstract: In a retrospective case-control study, gonococci with nutritional requirements for arginine, hypoxanthine, and uracil were recovered from 24 of 25 men with asymptomatic gonorrhea and 10 of 25 men with symptomatic gonorrhea (P = .0001). These strains represent a smaller proportion of gonococcal isolate from blacks than from whites. Asymptomatic urethral infection is important in the epidemiology of gonorrhea, particularly among whites. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/412426/
Abstract: Tooth size and dental pathology in fossil hominids were studied to test for regional differences in these parameters. The results showed little regional variation in tooth size for the Middle and Upper Pleistocene sites compared (except for Krapina) but considerable differences in the severity of attrition and dental pathology. These differences were considered indicative of regional differences in the functional load borne by the teeth, and in view of the similar technological status of the groups studied, were attributed to environmental differences in the diet. Since, in all regions, reduction in tooth size appeared to continue at the same rate for the periods investigated, no association can be established between presumed selective pressures related to differences in functional demands made on the dentition, and tooth reduction. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/412483/
Abstract: Ten children on total parenteral nutrition were studied. Plasma copper, zinc, manganese and selenium levels were determined by neutron activation and gamma spectrometry, every 10 days. With a copper intake of 20 microgram/kg/24 h, the average level 120 microgram% (94-144) was normal (N: 118 microgram +/- 11%). With a manganese intake of 40 microgram/kg/24 h, the level increased to 2.6 microgram% (1.3-4.5) (N: 1.1 microgram +/- 0.2%). With a zinc intake of 30 microgram/kg/24 h, the level decreased to 45.9 microgram % (20-63) (N: 83 microgram +/- 28%); with an intake of 50 microgram/kg/24 h the level remained under normal. With a selenium intake of 1 microgram/kg/24 h, the level decreased to 10.6 ng/ml (3.6-21.6) (N: 38.2 ng/ml +/- 11.9), but was normalized with an intake of 3 microgram/kg/24 h. From these results, with all reserves that estimation implies, the authors suggest that the disorders due to deficit or excess of trace elements could be avoided by daily intakes per kg of body weight: copper 20 microgram, zinc 100 microgram, manganese 10 microgram and selenium 3 microgram, with supplementation of iron, iodine and fluoride. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/412455/
Abstract: The technique of cervical pharyngostomy is presented as a safe alternative procedure to the nasogastric tube for patients requiring prolonged periods of gastrointestinal decompression or tube feeding. The results in 21 cases are described. The complication rate is low and the use of cervical pharyngostomy is therefore justified in that it reduces patient discomfort and makes treatment more efficient. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/412474/
Abstract: Candida parapsilosis is rarely isolated from blood cultures. Our hospital surveillance detected an increased rate of isolation of C parapsilosis during a four month period. Fourteen postoperative patients receiving intravenous (IV) hyperalimentation and eight burn patients receiving IV albumin were involved. Hectic fever, the major clinical manifestation, was seen in 61% of cases. Therapy in the postoperative patients consisted merely of discontinuing IV catheters and hyperalimentation, while amphotericin B was needed in five of eight burn patients to control persistent fungemia. Epidemiologic analysis identified a source of the organism in the IV-additive preparation room where C parapsilosis was found contaminating a vacuum system. Organisms apparently refluxed into IV bottles when aliquots were removed to accommodate additives. Of 103 patients who received fluids prepared with the contaminated system, 21% became infected with C parapsilosis. Infection surveillance was instrumental in detection and control of the outbreak. Routine guideline should be established to insure the sterility of IV fluids containing additives. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/412611/
Abstract: Of 272 patients with asthma, thirty (11%) gave a history of exacerbations occurring after ingestion, solutions of orange orange drinks. Fourteen of these were given provocation tests by drinking, on separate occasions of sulphur dioxide, sodium benzoate and tartrazine, which are present in all orange drinks. Eight reacted to sulphur dioxide with a fall in FEV1, four to sodium benzoate and one to tartrazine, and four did not react to any of these agents. Three of the benzoate patients were also sensitive to sulphur dioxide. The sulphur dioxide sensitive patients were predominantly young, with extrinsic asthma. The benzoate sensitive patients were predominantly middle-aged and the proportion with intrinsic asthma was higher. Prior inhalation of sodium cromoglycate by four patients inhibited the reaction to these substances. Sulphur dioxide has not previously been reported to cause exacerbations of asthma when ingested as a food preservative. It is used as a preservative in a wide range of acidic beverages and foods, and should be considered as possibly causal in patients suffering from apparently cryptogenic asthma, and asthma seemingly due to food allergy. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/412432/
Abstract: Nitrogen balance was studied in eleven patients receiving parenteral nutrition after operation. None of nine patients showed evidence of azotaemia. In two patients suffering from renal insufficiency in a stage of compensated retention there was no deterioration of metabolism as an immediate consequence of operation. The use of essential amino acids did not reveal any advantage over the infusion of a complete amino acid solution of high value. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/412557/
Abstract: Neisseria gonorrhoeae was isolated from 5.9% of oropharyngeal specimens obtained from patients attending a clinic for sexually transmitted diseases. Oropharyngeal isolates from 69 patients and anogenital isolated from 97 other patients attending the same clinic were compared. Many of the gonococci could be differentiated by the compounds required for growth in chemically defined media or by differences in the minimum inhibitory concentration (MIC) of penicillin G. Strains with requirements for either proline (Pro-) or arginine (Arg-) or for none of the compounds that are used for differentiation (zero phenotype) were more common in the oropharynx (91.3% of patients) than in anogenital sites (73.2% of patients). On the other hand, gonococci with multiple requirements that include arginine, hypoxanthine, and uracil (AHU strains) were present in oropharyngeal specimens from only three patients (4.4%), but were isolated from anogenital specimens from 18 patients (18.6%). A high susceptibility to penicillin characterised the AHU strains from all sites, as others have reported. The penicillin MIC ranged from 0.003-0.72 microgram/ml for strains with Pro-, Arg-, and zero phenotypes. However, a penicillin MIC greater than or equal to 0.42 microgram/ml was found for 17.6% of oropharyngeal isolates of these types, but for only 4.1% of Pro-, Arg-, and zero isolates from anogenital sites. None of these moderately resistant strains produced beta-lactamase. Our findings indicate that gonococci differ in their ability to colonise the oropharynx successfully. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/412515/
Abstract: 1. Caloreen, a glucose-polymer dextrin infused into human volunteers, although producing a clear increase in total plasma carbohydrate did not produce a satisfactory increase in plasma glucose levels or serum insulin levels. 2. Urinary losses were high and although small fragments of the dextrin (suggesting metabolic breakdown of the dextrin) were demonstrated in the urine, no suppression of plasma free fatty acid, glucagon or immediate increase in the respiratory quotient were noted, suggesting that the metabolism is too slow to make it useful for parenteral nutrition in its present form. 3. A dextrin with fewer branch-links might be more suitable. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/412638/
Abstract: 1. Rates of total protein turnover, synthesis and breakdown were measured in five children before and after recovery from severe protein-energy malnutrition and while receiving 0.6 g of protein and 397 kJ day-1 kg-1. 2. Thes rates were calculated after giving doses of [15N]glycine every 2 h along with the feeds and measuring the rate of excretion of [15N]urea in urine. 3. Malnourished children had significantly lower rates of protein turnover, synthesis and breakdown than after they had recovered. 4. During recovery from protein-energy malnutrition, two children on a daily intake of 1.2 g of protein and 605 J/kg body weight, had rates of protein turnover, synthesis and breakdown that were twice as great as those found on admission and higher than after recovery. 5. On the study diet the malnourished children maintained their weight while the recovered children lost weight; the apparent nitrogen balance was more positive in the malnourished children. 6. In recovered children, the rate of protein synthesis was unchanged over a wide range of protein intake, whereas the rate of protein breakdown appeared to rise with a reduction in protein intake. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/412634/
Abstract: Five infants with gastrointestinal disease requiring neonatal surgery and two infants with nonsurgical disorders were nourished successfully using a constant intragastric infusion of an elemental diet. Two additional patients who developed persistent distension and gastric retention on IED had mechanical obstruction requiring surgery and another died of NEC during treatment. Use of IED avoided the risks of TPN and was followed by successful introduction of standard feeding techniques. IED provides a valuable alternative to TPN in selected infants and newborns. Caution with any enteral feeding method is required in infants at risk for NEC. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/412644/
Abstract: Trauma and shock result in activation of a wide variety of endocrine and metabolic systems. Based upon experimental work demonstrating metabolic deficits, a variety of metabolic therapies have been developed to assist in the treatment of patients with shock or trauma. Evidence to date is inconclusive as to whether this therapy will be of significant benefit to critically ill patients. Some of the senior author's previous research has been analyzed as it relates to important health policy issues. We suggest that a peer review mechanism be set up within organized professional groups to assess major research trends and develop informed opinions on key research subjects within their domain. These peer review assessments must be effectively communicated to Congress and the executive branch of the government, as well as to the general public, if support commensurate with the importance of the research is to be achieved. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/412712/
Abstract: 1) There are a variety of foraging and dietary patterns among primates; different species have generally obligate food habits. 2) There are a number of convergent dietary patterns among primates that are not taxonomically dependent; closely related species may have very different food habits, while the diets of unrelated forms may be quite similar. 3) At least at a general level, relationships exist between dietary patterns and alimentary tract adaptations. Further comparative studies of the histology of the gut tract of primates in conjunction with detailed and quantitative studies of the food habits of natural populations are needed to determine if more precise dietary/digestive tract relationships exist. Studies of this type should lead to a better understanding of digestive physiology. However, whether we can ever determine the "natural diet" of man by such comparisons, of course, still remains an unanswered question. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/412711/
Abstract: Many metals express their toxic actions through behavioral disturbances. Such disturbances most often reflect impairment of central nervous system function, but also may arise from deleterious effects in other systems. Numerous factors influence behavioral toxicity. Uptake into brain obviously is important; the chemical form of the metal (e.g., inorganic versus organic) and route of exposure are key determinants of brain penetration. Species differences in toxicity may arise from differences in kinetics (e.g., blood-brain ratio) and affinity to target brain structures. Developmental stage is still another crucial variable, but the young organism is not necessarily the most susceptible, and nutritional considerations confound the standard paradigms. Furthermore, parametric variations of behavioral functions can no more be ignored than dose-effect functions, a principle exemplified in research on methylmercury. Unwarranted loyalties to traditional psychological tests may be one source of the current dispute about safe levels of lead simply because parametric variations of clearly specified functions are beyond the scope of such instruments. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/412782/
Abstract: Clinical observations during postoperative feeding (observation period 10 to 30 days) are reported. We compared glucose and fructose intake at different intake rates to glucose and fructose urinary output. Insulin admixture per 100 g of glucose is not constant. It can be progressively reduced following operation. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/412777/
Abstract: Phytohaemagglutinin (PHA) induced lymphocyte transformation in whole blood and in purified lymphocyte cultures was investigated in Gambian children with acute Plasmodium falciparum malaria or with acute protein-energy malnutrition (PEM). Responses of purified lymphocytes cultured in the absence of autologous plasma were normal, with one exception. Autologous plasma depressed the response of purified lymphocytes to a low dose of PHA in several malaria and PEM patients. In whole blood cultures of 1 day and of 3 day duration, responses of several children with malaria or PEM were less than those of control children. Responses were not related to absolute lymphocyte counts. In 3 day, but not 1 day, cultures from control and malarious children, responses were inversely proportional to neutrophil counts. Cultures of whole blood and of purified lymphocytes in autologous plasma gave comparable results in 58 of 70 patients. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/412783/
Abstract: A case of decompensated heart failure due to a combined myocardial malformation is presented, in which intravenous nutrition with restricted fluid intake became necessary. Employing a 70% solution of FGX combined with an amino acid solution following the KE pattern the already catabolic metabolism was reversed and a loss of weight avoided. Over a long-term period of application (three weeks) no side effects due to this solution were noted. The necessity of continuous supervision of the FGX 70% infusion is stressed. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/412784/
Abstract: Using experimental animals and human volunteers the suitability of ethanol for parenteral nutrition was investigated. The most evident disadvantage is the relatively low metabolic capacity for intravenous ethanol. A steady state was attained in the animal experiment with the low dose of 0.2 g/kg bodyweight per hour. No indications were found, however, that intravenous ethanol would contribute to the development of a lactate acidosis. Merely a short time before death because of hyperalcoholemia (5-7% blood concentration) an increase in lactate concentration is found which might be caused by circulatory collaps. Additionally, the effect of intravenous ethanol seems to be of minor importance. Small effects were found only in the experimental animal as well as in volunteers. A very strong inhibition of galactose metabolism was found to be a significant effect of ethanol application. Despite of similar metabolic reactions neither the application of xylitol nor of sorbitol causes an inhibition of galactose metabolism. These results might be interpreted as signs for compartmentalisation of the different metabolic reactions in the cytoplasma of the hepatocytes. According to the results of these investigations ethanol merely evokes small acute metabolic effects. The low metabolic capacity and the established hepatotoxicity are indications for a restrained use of ethanol in parenteral nutrition. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/412785/
Abstract: A significant improvement in the protein status of twelve malnourished geriatric patients was achieved during a three-week daily supplementation of the hospital diet by 9 g essential amino acids (eight classical essential amino acids plus histidine). This was especially evident in the doubled serum concentration of prealbumin and retinol-binding protein. The changes of total serum protein and hemoglobin were much less distinct. The immunoglobulins IgA, IgM and IgG remained unchanged for the entire observation period. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/412844/
Abstract: The effect of 4,4'-bis(beta-diethylaminoethoxy)alpha,beta-diethyldiphenylethane (DH) on lipid metabolism in the liver differed considerably in different animal species, humans, monkeys, and rats, because of differences in drug-metabolizing ability. Monkeys retain considerable drug-metabolizing ability as compared with humans, but the DH-hydroxylating activity in monkeys seems to be much lower than in rats. The hydroxyl derivative was the major substance which accumulated in rat liver following the administration of DH, while DH itself and its N-dealkylated substances accumulated in monkey liver. N-Dealkylated substances were also observed in human liver, but the amount was much smaller than in monkeys. Bis(monoacylglyceryl)phosphate (BMGP), which is characteristic of this kind of drug-induced lipidosis, did not increase as much in monkey liver as in human liver, but a marked increase in phosphatidyl inositol (PI) was observed in monkey liver during administration of DH. The concentration of acidic phospholipids (BMGP + PI) in liver showed a close correlation with the accumulation of the drug (DH + its metabolites), irrespective of species differences. Among subcellular particles isolated from a monkey liver following administration of DH, the crude mitochondrial fraction, including lysosomes, was richest in BMGP. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/412860/
Abstract: A 10 month old female infant was evaluated for severe lactic acidosis. Clinically she was well nourished and had a substantial amount of adipose tissue despite recurrent episodes of acidosis. Her psychomotor development was retarded, her movements were dystonic and generalized seizures punctuated her course. Metabolic abnormalities included elevated blood concentrations of lactate, pyruvate, beta-hydroxybutyrate, acetoacetate, alanine, proline and glycine, decreased blood concentrations of glutamine, aspartate, valine and citrate, and intermittent elevations of serum cholesterol. A trial on a high-fat diet worsened the clinical condition and intensified the ketoacidosis and hyperalaninemia. Analysis of hepatic tissue obtained by open biopsy revealed increased concentrations of lactate, alanine, acetyl-CoA and other short-chain acyl-CoA esters, and decreased concentrations of oxaloacetate, citrate, alpha-ketoglutarate, malate and aspartate. The blood and tissue metabolic perturbations reflected a deficiency of hepatic pyruvate carboxylase. The apparent Km of hepatic citrate synthase for oxaloacetate was 4.6 micrometer. Calculated tissue oxaloacetate concentrations were 0.50--0.84 micrometer suggesting that tricarboxylic acid cycle activity was severely limited by the decreased availability of this substrate. An iv glucose tolerance test resulted in the paradoxical synthesis of ketone bodies. This observation, coupled with the intermittent hypercholesterolemia and the increased tissue acetyl-CoA concentrations, suggests that pyruvate carboxylase is important in modulating the fractional distribution of intracellular acetyl-CoA between the tricarboxylic acid cycle, the beta-hydroxy-beta-methyl-glutaryl-CoA cycle (and the synthesis of cholesterol and ketone bodies), and fatty acid synthesis. Treatment in future cases might be directed toward increasing tissue concentrations of oxaloacetate. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/418550/
Abstract: The problem dealing with the effect of various nitrogen sources upon the protein metabolism indices and also with the effect of the main pathological process and volume of surgical intervention upon these indices in the closest postoperative period following gastrointestinal surgery, are discussed in this paper. According to the authors' findings there is no statistically significant difference in using such nitrogen sources in parenteral feeding as moriamine, aminozol and hydrolyzine solution. Some findings prove a higher albumin and beta-albumin contents and a high albumin-globulin coefficient in recovered patients within the first days after the operation. The authors came to the conclusion on the necessity of elaborating individual parenteral feeding programs. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/418582/
Abstract: Amino acids and proteins in whole saliva of normal and malnourished Egyptian infants and young children were investigated. 16 amino acids, 7 of them are essential, could be detected in saliva of normal infants. Electrophoretic analysis revealed the existence of 10 protein components in saliva of either normal or malnourished infants. In oedematous cases, salivary aminoacids, particularly the essential ones, were increased as well as most of the protein components. In non-oedematous cases, the pattern was more or less normal, but in 3rd grade marasmus, amino acid and protein components of saliva were somewhat increased. The conclusion was drawn that such increase is mainly due to tissue degeneration which is more marked in oedematous than non-oedematous form of the disease. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/418618/
Abstract: The authors reports the existence of an enteral method of alimentation, a real mechanical nutritional aid which, through the Nutripompe, allows exclusive performances: highest calorie intakes, accelerated absorption in the upper portion of the small gut, excellent tolerance, inversion of the tendency to catabolism, undisputed clinical effectiveness, innocuousness, simplicity, little supervision. It is a very economical procedure. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/418621/
Abstract: This study intends to assess, by ion-exchange chromatography of free amino acid levels of peripheral blood plasma, the amino acid absorption of severely growth retarded infants with protracted diarrhoea, during the initial period of rehabilitation. Eleven infants from a very low socio-economic group of a developing country, with nutritional marasmic growth retardation and prolonged diarrhoea, were treated for a period of 10 days with a commercially available free amino acid--glucose diet (Vivonex, Pfrimmer Co., Erlangen, Germany). Excessive hyperprolinaemia characterized the plasma aminogram before treatment. After initial rehabilitation with this diet, the plasma analyses showed very low branch-chained and cystine levels, and marginally high alanine, glycine, and proline levels. It seemed that the free amino acids could not be absorbed quickly enough to meet with the high supply of glucose. Furthermore, this investigation supports the assumption that cystine is an essential amino acid in malnourished infants. In spite of normal or high human growth hormone levels, somatomedin was not detectable in pooled samples from these severely growth retarded infants. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/418745/
Abstract: Two groups of children were treated daily with 12.5 or 25 mg diethylcarbamazine for five months and a further group with 12.5 mg daily for seven weeks; 88 children completed the course. The trial was under constant supervision and ophthalmic and parasitological examinations were carried out at approximately one-month intervals. The acceptability of the drug was poor owing to adverse reactions, but the clinical response to treatment good. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/418840/
Abstract: Amino acid infusions either as a 7 per cent solution or as an isotonic 3.5 per cent solution produce a nitrogen-sparing effect in the postoperative period. The nitrogen-sparing effect is independent of the concentration and rate of infusion of the amino acid solution; or of any changes in plasma substrate and hormone concentrations. These solutions have no advantage over conventional intravenous therapy with isotonic glucose and saline solutions and there is no indication for their routine use in the management of postoperative patients. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/418962/
Abstract: The effect of undernutrition on the fatty acid profiles of cerebrosides and phospholipids in the developing rat brain has been investigated. Undernutrition was imposed post-natally in pups by the method of large litter size and feeding a protein-deficient diet during the post-weaning period. The results showed that lignoceric (24:0) and nervonic (24:1) acids of cerebrosides, which are marker fatty acids of myelin, were significantly lower in 50-day-old undernourished rats than in well-nourished controls. Among the polyunsaturated fatty acids of phospholipids the contribution of arachidonic acid (20:4) to the total fatty acids was lower in 10- and 21-day-old as well as 50-day-old rats. Altered fatty acid pattern of lipid classes might be the result of impaired myelination of brain due to nutritional stress. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/418870/
Abstract: Over a 7 year period, 85 cancer patients were managed by the nutrition service of St. Joseph's Hospital, Toronto. All these patients were nutritionally depleted, had obstruction to the gastrointestinal tract, or had postoperative complications such as enterocutaneous fistulas, evisceration or intraabdominal sepsis, which left total parenteral nutrition (TPN) as the only means of achieving positive nitrogen balance. A prospective study started in 1970 has found that when cancer was resectable and TPN was started preoperatively and continued postoperatively (24 patients-group 1) until the patient could take a normal diet, no deaths or significant complications occurred. When TPN was first started after life-threatening complications had occurred (53 depleted patients-group 2), the mortality was 17.0%. This mortality was only 4.5% after complications following operations for colon cancer, but was much higher with esophageal, pancreatic and bladder cancer, and especially after complications following surgery where radiotherapy had previously been given to abdomen or pelvis. When TPN was used in inoperable, cachectic patients (8 patients-group 3) to permit them to tolerate radiotherapy or chemotherapy, the mortality was 37.5%. This latter group is small, but TPN is worthwhile in selected patients where significant palliation and improvement in the quality of life can occur. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/418865/
Abstract: Long-term anticonvulsant drug therapy may lead to abnormalities of calcium metabolism resulting in osteomalacia. The prevalence and severity of altered calcium metabolism was studied in an adult outpatient population of persons with epilepsy receiving anticonvulsant therapy for a minimum of 2 years. Assessment of calcium metabolism was based on serum concentrations of calcium, phosphorus, alkaline phosphatase and 25-hydroxycholecalciferol and of plasma parathyroid hormone, intestinal absorption of isotopic calcium and skeletal bone mineral mass as determined by in vivo neutron activation or x-ray photodensitometry.Thirty-nine patients who had been receiving anticonvulsant therapy for an average of 20 years were studied; none had clinical evidence of metabolic bone disease. Decreased serum calcium concentration was noted in 10%, decreased serum phosphorus concentration in 10% and elevated serum alkaline phosphatase concentration in 44%. The mean serum 25-hydroxycholecalciferol concentration was significantly lower (P < 0.001) than in a control group (11.6 v. 19.6 mg/mL). None of 18 patients studied had an increased plasma concentration of parathyroid hormone, and only 1 of 17 patients had decreased intestinal absorption of isotopic calcium. Bone mineral mass was decreased in 44% of 32 patients studied.It was concluded that long-term treatment with anticonvulsant drugs leads to mild abnormalities of calcium metabolism and decreased bone mineral mass in a substantial percentage of adult outpatients with epilepsy. These abnormalities probably predispose the patients to the development of clinically significant metabolic bone disease. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/418961/
Abstract: A dietary survey has been carried out of elderly people with osteomalacia. The commonest type of osteomalacia was that associated with partial gastrectomy. Although a dietary deficiency of vitamin D has been suggested as a cause of the osteomalacia the intake of this substance was not significantly different from that in controls to explain the development of the disease. It was found, however, that patients with osteomalacia went outside much less than controls and given the contribution of sunlight to meeting vitamin D requirements it is suggested that further consideration should be given to this factor in the aetiology of post-gastrectomy osteomalacia. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/418841/
Abstract: One hundred and seventy-eight central venous catheters inserted via the subclavian vein for the purposes of intravenous feeding were studied in 77 patients. Insertion of the catheter was complicated by puncture of the subclavian artery on three occasions and by a pneumothorax on two. Catheters remained in situ for a mean period of 10 days. Ninety-two were removed because the requirement for nutrition no longer existed and 86 were removed because of suspected infection, venous thrombosis or mechanical problems. Infective organisms were grown from 17 catheters (9.5 per cent) but other unrelated causes of infection were frequently present in the population under study. Venous thrombosis of a major upper limb vein was seen in 8 patients. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/419014/
Abstract: Among the many causes of chronic diarrhea in children are food, the most common; inflammation; enzyme deficiencies; metabolic, anatomic, and physiologic abnormalities; and endocrine disorders. The first step in management is to estimate fluid losses and treat dehydration greater than 5%. Workup should include a careful diet history, physical examination, examination of stools and urine, and usually a sweat test. Treatment should be directed to the underlying disease. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/419459/
Abstract: Ten patients with primary hyperparathyroidism were placed on a constant 30 mEq of calcium and 120 meq of sodium diet, and alterations in their calcium balance in response to standard oral doses of chlorpropamide were studied over a 4 day control period and a 4 day treatment period. The 10 patients treated with chlorpropamide significantly increased the urinary excretion of calcium and sodium and decreased the excretion of cyclic adenosine monophosphate (AMP). The serum calcium was lowered in six of the patients treated with chlorpropamide, and three of these patients, who had diabetes mellitus and either refused or were too ill for parathyroidectomy, continued to receive chlorpropamide for periods of 9 to 36 months. These three patients experienced prolonged lowering of the serum calcium level and became less confused, lethargic, and fatigued. The interrelationships between the chlorpropamide-induced changes in excretion of calcium, sodium, and cyclic AMP still must be clarified. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/419526/
Abstract: As part of the epidemiological investigations on Salmonella on the island of Walcheren, the contamination of sewage water in the village of Aagtekerke was studied over a prolonged period. These studies showed that this sewage water was frequently contaminated by large numbers of Salmonella. In the present study, efforts were made to find an answer to the question of the origins of this contamination. For this purpose, the incidence of Salmonella in the sewage system, in faeces of man and pets as well as in shops, kitchens and lavatories in the village of Aagtekerke was studied for a period of three weeks in June 1977. In addition to the findings in the sewage system (including the inlet water and effluents of the sewage works) which were positive for Salmonella, this organism was only isolated from a few faecal samples of human and animal origin. Serotyping showed that the strains isolated from human faeces were similar to those found to be present in the sewage system. This fact, in conjunction with the results of the bacterial counts. suggests that the sewage system was only contaminated by the small number of carriers. The reduction of contamination observed in the sewage system during the period of investigation could be evidence of the fact that Salmonella organisms cannot survive by themselves in an environment of this type, at least not at the temperatures recorded on collecting samples from the sewage water. Growth of organisms under more favourable conditions cannot be ruled out. An inquiry on dietary habits and kitchen hygiene of the local population showed that contamination within households. Origination with the food, is a real possibility. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/462890/
Abstract: Total protein and protein fractions in the blood serum, ultimate nitrogen metabolism products in urine and also the assimilation and nitrogen balance in practically healthy male-students, aged 20--25 years, were studied. Investigations proceeded against the background of rations evolved in keeping with approved physiological standard allowances covering the needs of students for nutrients and energy (1968). The registered individual values of the protein metabolism help detail the acceptance of standards for a given group of the population. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/462886/
Abstract: In renal insufficiency the low-protein diet should be considered of reduction and temporary type. After clinical improvement it is advisable to place the patients on diet with a higher protein content and in this way to avert any further fall in the concentration of essential amino acids in the plasma and thus keep down the progressive protein-caloric fasting. The disturbance of the protein metabolism is, however, provoked not only by the protein-caloric deprivation, but by the disease itself. In this way, the developing upsets distort the picture of the protein-calorie deficiency, which finds its expression in the appearance of the anemic syndrome, disturbed electrolytes metabolism, imbalance of the acid-base equilibrium, etc. Therefore, one should look for other ways for their compensation, not believing that this can be achieved through the dietotherapy alone. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/462889/
Abstract: A soluble form of caseins, so-called casecites for an infant and dietetic nutrition, is obtained from separated milk by way of solving casein through using freshly precipitated lactic acid terment of 0.1 n HCl, mixed with solts-solvents. The lactoproteinic concentrates-casecites have an elevated biological value, called forth by the content of large amounts (80.0 per cent) of complete lactic protein, the presence of citrate-ions, forming as a physiologically active additive, balanced most important mineral elements. A minimal (not more than 2.0 per cent) of the lactose content in casecites enables the latter to be utilized for nutrition of persons suffering from lactose intolerance as well as to orientally regulate the carbohydrate composition of the products obtained on their basis. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/462887/
Abstract: The sole method of treating phenylketonuria, a grave hereditary illness, is at present dietary cure. A principle for formulating therapeutic rations in this pathology is set forth, and approximate menus for children of different age groups are presented. Exclusion from the ration of an ill children of basic proteinaceous products securing a normal growth and development of the developing organism, requires a painstaking observence of the proposed rations. As the main source of protein at the time of the patient's treatment various protein hydrolysates are used. A way of correcting curative diets for children of various age is indicated. The treatment should be conducted under a strict biochemical control. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/463354/
Abstract: A retrospective study through questionnaire was made among over 800 women of a Pre-Sahel region of Mali. It confirmed the very high infant and child mortality in this population: over 250% mortality under 1 year of age and over 400% under 6 years of age. The factorial analysis of correspondences proved adequate to determine the main characteristics of the local mortality pattern. In chronological order, the most important causes are obstetrical factors (1st day of life), umbilical tetanus (1 week to 1 month of age), malaria (1 month to 1 year of age), pneumopathies (including pertussis and lung complications of measles), toxicoses and nutritional syndromes (over 1 year of age). Preventive measures at various levels are proposed on the basis of these findings. They belong to three broad groups: -Overall socioeconomic development with effective participation of the rural communities concerned. -Development of an appropriate primary health care structure, with a primary health care team in each village. -Strengthening of the programmes of control of the most important communicable diseases. Such simple and cheap actions should, given a clear political will of the national authorities and a modicum of trust in the future on the part of local leaders, be rapidly implementable even in the most underprivileged countries and bring a significant amount of progress in the rural areas. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/463369/
Abstract: An anonymous questioning of 200 patients with urinary calculi concerning the observation of the general and special measures of the metaphylaxis of urinary calculi resulted in the fact that in particular the measures of the general metaphylaxis (bodily movement, diet, dilution of the urine) are not or only parlty obeyed by a large part of the patients. The examinations show that for the improvement of the understanding of the disease and the behaviour of the patients concerning their health further on a great attension must be paid to the quality of the information by the physician and to the communication between physician and patient. An insufficient cooperation of the patients in the metaphylaxis of the urinary calculi would call in question the effectivity of all efforts and measures concerning the prevention of relapses. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/463539/
Abstract: Phototherapy in the treatment of newborns with hyperbilirubinemia, resulting in degradation of bilirubin, also appears to have other photodynamic effects on metabolism. We studied flavin adenine dinucleotide (FAD) saturation of erythrocyte glutathione reductase, which should reflect riboflavin nutritional status, in 28 healthy newborns, and followed 37 newborns with hyperbilirubinemia prior to the start of and during phototherapy. The results indicate that healthy newborns on human milk feeding, relatively poor in riboflavin, have evidence of a transient riboflavin depletion soon after birth. This effect is made more pronounced by phototherapy and partially prevented by parenteral or oral administration of moderate amounts of riboflavin. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/463442/
Abstract: The changes in the plasma or serum concentration of thyrotrophin (TSH), thyroxine (T4), 3,5,3'-triiodothyronine (T3), 3,3',5-triiodothyronine (reverse T3, rT3) and cortisol were examined in patients undergoing elective cholecystectomy (n = 10) or acute laparotomy due to peritonitis (n = 11). TSH and T4 showed no essential changes in either group. T3 was reduced already during initiation of anaesthesia and continued to fall during and after surgery in both groups. In the peritonitis group, T3 was reduced already before medical intervention. rT3 displayed changes opposite to those of T3. An increase in cortisol peceded the changes in T3 and rT3 in both groups. T3 and rT3 returned towards normal levels when the patients recovered and resumed oral nutrition. It seems likely that both elective and acute uncomplicated surgery is accompanied by a transient reduction in the extrathyroidal production of the most active hormone, T3, and by a reciprocal increase in the levels of the virtually inactive rT3. The underlying mechanism behind this metabolic adaptation is unclear but may be related to adrenocortical activation and/or to changes in the mode of nutrition. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/463589/
Abstract: A prospective study of schizophrenic patients prescribed injectable depot neuroleptic drugs as maintenance therapy showed a clinically significant weight gain in 55% of patients. No significant difference was shown between flupenthixol decanoate and fluphenazine decanoate, nor was a clinically meaningful relationship shown with dose, or the use of anti-parkinsonian drugs. The weight gain continued for at least 2 years following a mental state relapse. It is suggested that the monitoring of weight and giving of appropriate advice on diet are two essential in maintenance therapy of chronic schizophrenia. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/463538/
Abstract: The neurological maturation in 25 newborn babies born to severely undernourished mothers was studied by evaluating muscle tone and excitability status. These mothers had weight below the 25th percentile expected for height, haemoglobin less than 80.0 g/l and serum albumin less than 25.0 g/l. Twenty-three babies born to healthy mothers were studied as control. The babies of undernourished mothers demonstrated gross intrauterine growth retardation. There occurred parallel reduction in placental weight and its protein content. The neuromotor behaviour of these newborns showed significant alteration in the performance of most reflexes, resembling normal motor behaviour of preterm infants. As many as 72% newborns could be classified as hypotonic and 56% hypoexcitable. However, no newborn demonstrated hypertonia or hyperexcitability. The parameters of neuromotor assessment were found to have no correlation with the birth weight in both undernourished as well as control group. These observations suggest that muscle tone and excitability are better indices of maturation of central nervous system than the birth weight. It seems that the neurological evaluation becomes unreliable in babies who suffer from intrauterine nutritional deprivation. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/463718/
Abstract: Dysphagia, or difficulty swallowing, can interfere with independent feeding in the physically disabled adult. The physiology of normal swallowing and neuromuscular pathology of dysphagia applicable to the occupational therapist are reviewed in this paper. Pertinent nursing care of the respiratory and gastrointestinal tracts are described. Normal and pathological reflexes involved in swallowing include gag, bite, and suck-swallow. Head, neck, and jaw stability are necessary for swallowing. Methods for evaluating the appropriate reflexes, sensation, and orofacial movement of the adult neurologically impaired patient are presented. Proper positioning is described and treatment suggestions are offered and applied to four case studies. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/463450/
Abstract: A sensitive assay is described for measurement of circulating 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D (1,25-(OH)2D) using rachitic chick intestinal cytosol binding protein. The metabolite was extracted from serum by diethyl ether and chromotographed on a Sephadex LH-20 column followed by high-pressure liquid chromatography. The concentration of 1,25-(OH)2D was then measured by a competitive protein-binding assay. The binding capacity of the protein was unchanged for 4 months. The inter- and intra-assay variations were both 11%. The standard curve was useful at serum concentrations ranging from 14 to 395 pmol/l (6 to 165 pg/ml). The normal mean concentration was 79.6 +/- 36.8 pmol/l (33.1 +/- 15.3 pg/ml). The serum 1,25-(OH)2D was studied in elderly subjects following administration of 1 alpha-hydroxycholecalciferol (1 alpha-OHD3) at different doses. Large variations occurred indicating individual rates of metabolism of 1,25-(OH)2D. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/463798/
Abstract: An analysis of the change in total body nitrogen during fasting shows that it declines exponentially, a small fraction being lost rapidly (t 1/2 of a few days), and the remainder being lost slowly (t 1/2 of many months). The obese faster loses N, and weight, at a slower relative rate than the nonobese; and the ratio of N loss to weight loss during an extended fast is inversely related to body fat content, being about 20 g/kg in the nonobese and about 10 g/kg in those with body fat burdens of 50 kg or more. The loss of body N on a low protein-calorie adequate diet can also be described in exponential terms, and this function allows an estimate to be made of the N requirement. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/463799/
Abstract: Eleven obese patients were placed on a liquid formula diet containing 320 kcal (1.34 MJ), 31 g protein, 44 g oligosaccharides, 1.5 g fat, vitamins, and essential minerals for a period of 4 weeks under metabolic ward conditions. The diet was well tolerated, and mean weight loss was 2.49 kg/week during the 4-week period. Nitrogen excretion diminished in all patients during the period of treatment, but nitrogen balance remained slightly negative in most patients, mean daily deficit being 1.3 g N/day at the end of the study. The rate at which nitrogen was loss declined in a biphasic fashion, a slower second phase after an initial rapid period of adjustment to the diet. During the study a mean of 4.1 +/- 1.4% SD of calculated total body nitrogen was lost. Potassium excretion studies did not reveal significant potassium losses. The amount of nitrogen loss was correlated with the urinary creatinine excretion, suggesting that nitrogen loss during reduced dietary intake of protein is largely dependent on the size of the lean body mass. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/463800/
Abstract: The urinary excretion of 3-methylhistidine is used as a convenient index of muscle protein catabolism. Histidine is methylated in peptide linkage within muscle protein, and is quantitatively excreted when the protein is catabolized. 3-Methylhistidine would be expected to be present in ingested muscle protein, and unless altered in the digestive process, to be excreted as a function of intake. We studied its excretion at four levels of mixed protein intake, in separate groups of obese subjects, on the 1st day of altered input, with and without concurrent energy provision. A significant (P less than 0.001) linear relationship between protein intake and 3-methylhistidine excretion was observed, with a mean excretion of 198 mumoles/day at 0 intake, and an increment of 1.34 mumoles/g of ingested protein. There was no relationship between its excretion and the concurrent nitrogen balance. Thus, estimates of muscle protein catabolism with this method require that muscle protein be absent from the diet or its contribution quantified. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/463803/
Abstract: For 6 weeks, 10 men and nine women aged 35 to 55 consumed each of two diets in a cross-over design. The diets were comprised of identical natural foods with 30% of the calories as either sucrose or cooked wheat starch. Carbohydrate, fat and protein supplied 43, 42, and 15% of the calories, respectively. Of the calories 10% were eaten at breakfast (7:00 to 8:30 AM) and 90% at dinner (4:30 to 6:30 PM). Initial body weights were essentially maintained. Total serum lipids, triglycerides, and total cholesterol levels were significantly higher when the subjects consumed the sucrose diet than when they consumed the starch diet. Increases associated with the sucrose diet were greatest for triglycerides (33.0%). In a subgroup of nine subjects with triglyceride levels above the normal range, sucrose feeding increased triglyceride levels 45.2%. Triglycerides and pre-beta lipoproteins were significantly higher in males than in females. Pre-beta lipoproteins were 32% higher when the subjects consumed sucrose than when they consumed starch. For alpha and beta lipoproteins, small, nonsignificant increases were associated with sucrose feeding. Serum free fatty acids were not affected by diet. These results indicate that the consumption of sucrose can increase blood lipids that are considered to be risk factors in heart disease and that males and carbohydrate-sensitive individuals may be more susceptible than others to the effects of sucrose. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/479092/
Abstract: Commercial infant formulas were analyzed simultaneously for thiamine and riboflavin by an automated fluorometric method and by the AOAC manual fluorometric methods. For 10 products, the mean thiamine and riboflavin results determined using the automated method ranged from 104 to 113% and 90 to 112%, respectively, of those by the AOAC manual methods. The coefficients of variation for thiamine and riboflavin ranged from 1.05 to 3.90% and 0.60 to 2.48%, respectively, for the automated methods, and 1.48 to 3.86% and 0.69 to 10.9%, respectively, for the manual methods. Using the automated method, mean recoveries of thiamine and riboflavin added to samples were 103 and 104%, respectively. The automated method used a common sample preparation to determine both thiamine and riboflavin, and gave results equivalent to, or better than, those obtained by the manual methods. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/479484/
Abstract: Qualitative and quantitative changes in food habits of Chinese persons living in Lincoln, Nebraska, were evaluated. Findings indicated that these people do have a flexible attitude toward foods. Incorporation of American foods into their diet and a decreased consumption of Chinese foods showed that a continuous process of food-habit changing is occurring in this group. In particular, more American foods have been incorporated in their breakfast and lunch patterns, while for the dinner meal, the more traditional Chinese foods continue to be eaten. Factors related to the ease of adaptation to American food were investigated, and possible implications are suggested. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/479479/
Abstract: Three patients are presented who ingested a health food known as "bee pollen" and who experienced an immediate allergic reaction. Examination revealed that the bee pollen contained dandelion pollen, which belongs to the Compositae family as does ragweed. In vivo and in vitro studies demonstrated that the patients were sensitive to several Compositae family members, rather than to insect-derived antigens. In addition, radioallergosorbent inhibition studies confirmed the suspected cross-reactivity between the health food and Compositae pollens. This study indicates that atopic individuals may experience anaphylaxis from ingestion of antigens in certain food stuffs that cross-react with pollens to which they are sensitive. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/478774/
Abstract: A group of 36 subjects, 20 chronic schizophrenic patients and 16 nonpsychotic mentally retarded patients were chosen at random from the chronic care wards of the Douglas Hospital to assess levels of magnesium, calcium and phosphorus. No significant differences were found between the two groups in calcium and phosphorus. However, the magnesium level was significantly lower (p less than 0.01) in the schizophrenic group than in the mentally retarded group. This difference reached a level of 0.001 significance when chronic female schizophrenic patients were compared to the female mentally retarded group. Hospitalization, diet and medication were excluded as possible etiological factors. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/479346/
Abstract: Aluminum-containing drugs are used extensively to bind dietary phosphate and as antacids, but little is known about toxicity and tissue uptake of ingested aluminum. Aluminum concentrations were measured by neutron activation analysis in tissues taken from hyperparathyroid and normal human subjects and from rats. The parathyroid glands contained significantly more aluminum per unit mass than did thyroid or cervical muscle. The concentration of aluminum in the parathyroids appears to be linearly related to dietary aluminum intake. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/479483/
Abstract: Modification of the Western diet, with an intake of 2,500 kcal per day and a decrease in cholesterol and fat intake to 33 per cent of calories with a P:S of 0.40, failed to alter serum lipids significantly. Evidence suggested that increasing the daily intake of cholesterol resulted in deposition in the body tissues. However, when the fatty acid composition and the P:S ratio of dietary fat were adjusted, lower serum lipids and a compensatory increase in fecal sterols occurred when cholesterol was added to the diet. Changes in serum lipoproteins in the subjects fed a "prudent" or a common diet indicate an increase in the proportion of HDL-cholesterol which may be beneficial in reducing coronary heart disease. Evidence suggests that, in absence of caloric excess, lowering of serum lipids and increased removal of fecal sterols is possible on a prudent diet without major modification of the customary foods, but that a high P:S ratio is required. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/479447/
Abstract: Wound healing proceeds more efficiently and quickly in well-nourished individuals who are in good general health at the time that they have to undergo surgery. Per contra, individuals who are malnourished and chronically ill heal less well and are in general at greater risk of complications during and after surgery. For the latter, elective surgery may be deferred until nutritional improvement is attained, but for emergency or urgent operations, institution of measures promoting good nutrition has to be concurrent with necessitous surgery and continued postoperatively. In this paper, the importance to wound healing of proteins, carbohydrates, fats, vitamins, and trace elements and minerals is reviewed. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/479477/
Abstract: Two protein fractions of rice, grain, glutelin and globulin, were prepared by dilute alkali and salt extraction, respectively. The globulin fraction was separated into G1-1, G1-2, and G1-3 fractions by Sephadex G-200 column chromatography. The allergenic activities and lymphocyte-stimulating properties of these fractions were investigated by the radioallergosorbent test (RAST) with sera from 6 individuals who showed immediate skin reaction to soluble rice extract and by 3H-thymidine incorporation tests with 5 subjects with indurated skin reaction of delayed onset. All fractions were found to be reactive with specific IgE antibody, and G1-1 and G-2 revealed lymphocyte-stimulating activity. RAST inhibition revealed considerable cross-reactivity of IgE antibody with the glutelin and globulin fractions. When the glutelin and globulin fractions were heated at 60 degrees C for 1 hr, 100 degrees C for 2 min, or 100 degrees C for 10 min, RAST activities were reduced to 40%-70% of native. On the other hand, lymphocyte-stimulating activities of the globulin fraction heated at 60 degrees C for 1 hr or 100 degrees C for 2 min were enhanced up to 6 times of native activities, while those of identically treated glutelin fractions remained unchanged. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/479485/
Abstract: Ascorbic acid status of thirty-nine white children with developmental disabilities, ages three to nineteen years, is reported. Mean daily ascorbic acid intakes were calculated from three-day food records. Biochemical assessment consisted of fasting serum levels and a 6-hr. load test. Nine children served as a control group for the load test only. Mean dietary intakes for the vitamin were 204 per cent of the allowance. The mean serum ascorbic acid value was 1.3 mg. per deciliter. Only two children had levels at the unacceptable deficient level. Following load tests, ten children were identified as low excretors (less than 17 per cent), nine were moderate excretors (17 to 23 per cent), and the rest were high excretors (above 23 per cent). All of the normal children were high excretors. Two of three children with low ascorbic acid intakes (below 66 per cent of the recommended allowance) were verified as deficient by their fasting serum levels and urinary recovery after a load. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/479489/
Abstract: Dietary regimens in gastrointestinal disease can be divided into two categories: First, those of proven value include: (a) Disaccharide elimination for disaccharidase deficiency and exclusion of monosaccharides for sugar malabsorption; (b) gluten-free diet for celiac/sprue; (c) elimination of certain allergens because of food allergies; (d) protein restriction for portal systemic encephalopathy; (e) low-carbohydrate diet for dumping syndrome; (f) low-fiber diet for diarrheal syndromes; and (g) low-fat diet for steatorrhea. Second, controversial diets include a bland diet for acid-peptic disorders, a high-fiber diet for colonic disorders, and a low-fat diet for gallbladder disease. It is important to separate facts from fancy in the dietary management of patients with gastrointestinal disease and base the recommendations for a particular diet on available objective evidence, not on traditional or fashionable trends. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/479486/
Abstract: Educational needs of dietitians were identified by 232 practitioners in Ohio by means of a self-administered questionnaire. Three major knowledge areas--managerial science, nutritional care science, and behavioral, communicative, and socio-cultural science--were covered in 109 questions. The respondents perceived a need for more professional knowledge than for behavioral, communicative, and socio-cultural sciences. Greater need was expressed for skills in technical and human ability than for skills in conceptual ability, and generally for nutritional knowledge rather than application. The findings could form the basis for continuing education programs. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/479547/
Abstract: The effect of graded doses of diethylcarbamazine on the concentration of microfilariae in the hydrocoele fluid, urine and skin of patients suffering from onchocerciasis was studied. The results showed that a significant number of microfilariae migrated into hydrocoele fluid and urine immediately after the drug was given and thereafter returned to pre-treatment levels rather more quickly in the former than the latter. The increase was found to be roughly directly proportional to the intensity of infection in the skin. By contrast the skin concentration of microfilariae fell sharply after treatment and remained significantly lower than pre-treatment levels for over four weeks. The potential use to which these observations could be put with respect to clinical screening of drugs in onchocerciasis is discussed. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/479587/
Abstract: The nature of development programmes is considered and employment opportunities in the Third World are briefly summarised. The qualities needed for dietetic educational proficiency in an alien culture are discussed. The assessment of cultural influences should be applied to dietetic teaching situations in Britain as well as to overseas work. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/479588/
Abstract: A comparison is made of triglyceride analysis and the creamatocrit procedure to determine their usefulness as methods for measuring the fat content of human milk. Triglyceride analysis is shown to be the more precise technique but, for use in the field, the creamatocrit method has the advantage of simplicity. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/479584/
Abstract: The dietary fibre intake of 25 patients with the irritable bowel syndrome was assessed by dietary recall over one week for the period before onset of symptoms, at diagnosis and after six months treatment with bran and a fibre-rich diet, and compared with controls matched for age and sex. Mean intake of patients fell from 20.2 g per day before onset of symptoms to 17.8 g at diagnosis (n.s.), when it was significantly less than the controls' intake of 22.6 g (P less than 0.01). The 20 patients who improved with treatment increased their intake from 18.9 g to 24.8 g (P less than 0.02); the five patients who did not improve did not increase their intake significantly (13.5 g to 15.6 g). 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/479988/
Abstract: A prospective study was undertaken of 108 children referred for outpatient evaluation of chronic recurrent diarrhea. The majority of the children did not have a serious underlying disorder. Elimination diets (milk free, egg free, wheat free) were widely prescribed for the treatment of chronic diarrhea and were given for longer intervals than originally recommended. Elimination diets sometimes resulted in inadequate caloric intake and failure to thrive. Wheat (gluten)-free diets were prescribed for over one month in 59% of children without a specific diagnosis being made. These findings indicate that elimination diets are frequently misused, and prolonged adherence to elimination diets may result in nutritional damage. The indiscriminate use of wheat-free diets for the treatment of chronic diarrhea may be masking the diagnosis of celiac disease and may account for the low incidence of this disorder in the United States. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/480387/
Abstract: Volatile nitrosamines were determined in alcoholic drinks during epidemiologic studies on the relationship between esophageal cancer incidence and alcohol consumption in Normandy, France. Nitrosodimethylamine (NDMA) was found commonly in most alcoholic drinks tested, with the exception of wine. The average level, about 2 micrograms/liter in beers, was higher than that for other drinks; the range was 0.2--8.6 micrograms/liter. Traces of nitrosodiethylamine (NDEA) were also detected in spirits and ciders. No significant increases in levels were found after nitrosation. Calculation of daily intake in the study region showed that the main intake of volatile nitrosamine is from NDMA in beer. The intake of NDEA through consumption of cider is about one-third that of NDMA from all sources. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/480482/
Abstract: A simple technique for determining effective renal plasma flow, filtration fraction and filtration rate is described. The determination depends upon the use of 131iodine labeled hippuran and 99mtechnetium labeled iron ascorbate or Sn diethylenetriaminepentaacetic acid. The filtration fraction is determined by dividing the corrected uptake for the technetium compound by the corrected uptake for radiohippuran. The uptake is simply determined by the 1 to 2-minute count over the kidneys with background subtraction and taking into account the amount injected. The technique is simple, quick and appears to be a useful clinical tool. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/495293/
Abstract: Studies in patients with insulin independent diabetes indicate that treatment with the second generation sulfonylurea glipizide results in partial amelioration of their insulin resistance and that this effect is significant in glipizide's antidiabetic action. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/495274/
Abstract: 1) Protein restricted diets decrease basal plasma insulin levels in obesity. 2) This effect occurs even in the presence of sufficient calories to maintain body weight and while the diet is high in carbohydrate. 3) The decrease in insulin is accompanied by a fall in plasma glucose and in the I/G ratio, suggesting an increase in insulin sensitivity. 4) Excessive protein intake, in addition to carbohydrate, may play a role in the pathogenesis of the hyperinsulinemia and insulin resistance found in obesity. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/495284/
Abstract: Thirty-three insulin-treated men with diabetes were hospitalized on a metabolic ward and fed control diets (43% carbohydrate) for 6 to 11 days followed by high carbohydrate (70%), high fiber (HCF) diets for 12-35 days. Fasting blood glucose, cholesterol and triglyceride values were significantly lower on HCF diets than on control diets despite significantly (p less than 0.01) lower insulin doses on the HCF diets. HCF diets were accompanied by increased insulin sensitivity and by binding of insulin by monocytes. Patients who responded well to the diet in the hospital have maintained comparable glucose, cholesterol and triglyceride values as well as lower insulin doses for an average of 20 months on maintenance diets (60% carbohydrate). The high carbohydrate and low fat content of these HCF diets seem to play the predominant role in the improved glucose metabolism of these patients whereas the high plant fiber content may be responsible for the reduction in serum cholesterol and triglyceride values. These studies suggest that HCF diets may have an important place in the management of patients with the maturity-onset type of diabetes. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/495385/
Abstract: The removal of carconogenic factors would be a most efficient measure to prevent cancer. As far as known chemicals are concerned, every effort is made to avert them, or at least to reduce the exposure to such compounds, but is necessary to detect unknown chemicals, especially those, drugs and foodstuffs for example, to which large populations are exposed. Giving suspected chemicals to laboratory animals is a standard carcinogenicity test. Studies of the carcinogenicity of unknown chemicals in animals are time consuming, expensive and cumbersome. This is why other means of establishing carcinogenicity are sought for. Several rapid tests are available to-day to select suspected carcinogens. These methods aim primarily at determining with chemicals--at the cell or tissue level--certain changes that would appear essential to trigger the carcinogenic process, such as somatic mutations. Studies are used on the mutagenicity of chemicals for bacteria of the Salmonella type, for yeast and cultured mammalian cells, together with the induction of recessive lethal mutations in Drosophila and of the unscheduled repair synthesis of DNA and the transformation of mammalian cells in vitro. Although there is an unequivocal correlation between the activity of chemicals in such tests and their carcinogenicity, discrepancies are found. Thus, the in vivo tests on laboratory animals remain the most reliable method to determine carcinogenicity. Whereas direct extrapolation of experimental data to human pathology is impossible, the experimental evidence of the carcinogenicity of any chemical should allow us to draw constructive conclusions. We shall never be able to reject drugs which produce the expected results and cannot be replaced by other drugs. But we can must the drugs whose beneficial effects are not exceptional and which can be replaced by other chemicals. As for the chemicals used in food additives and cosmetics, and recognized as carcinogenic in animals, they should be totally given up. Any decision made should be based on animal studies. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/495533/
Abstract: In this experiment the effect of dietary cholesterol in a linoleic acid-rich diet on serum cholesterol was tested. In a cross-over design 41 young healthy students received a linoleic acid-rich diet for 4 weeks at two levels of dietary cholesterol. The diet contained 14 to 15 energy% linoleic acid. The high cholesterol diet was obtained by adding two egg yolks a day to the rations. Supplementation of the linoleic acid-rich diet with the egg yolk cholesterol caused a significant rise of serum cholesterol of about 11 mg/100 ml (0.29 mmole/liter). The dietary cholesterol did not influence serum triglyceride levels. The influence on serum cholesterol was much less than expected, based on several predictive formulas. It is concluded that the presence of a high content of linoleic acid in the diet reduces the effect of dietary cholesterol on serum cholesterol if the cholesterol is provided as egg yolk. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/495537/
Abstract: Ten men and nine women ages 35 to 55 consumed two diets for 6 weeks each in a cross-over design. The diets were composed of identical natural foods and 30% of the calories as either sucrose or wheat starch. Carbohydrate, fat, and protein supplied 43, 42, and 15% of the calories, respectively. Of the calories 10% was eaten at breakfast (7:00 to 8:30 AM) and 90% at dinner (4:30 to 6:30 PM). Inital body weights were essentially maintained. Fasting serum insulin and glucose levels were significantly higher with the sucrose than with the starch diet. The insulin response and the insulin:glucose ratios after a sucrose load (2 g/kg body weight) were greater after the subjects consumed the sucrose diet. Sucrose feeding produced increases in fasting serum insulin, the insulin:glucose ratio and the insulin response to a sucrose load that were of greater magnitude in a subgroup of nine subjects classified as potentially carbohydrate-sensitive than in normal subjects. Glucose response to a sucrose load and fasting serum glucagon did not differ significantly with diet. Fasting insulin and glucose showed significant increases as a function of time on diet. These results indicate that sucrose feeding produces undersirable changes in several of the parameters associated with glucose tolerance. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/495548/
Abstract: Thirty-eight lactating women, from 1 to 31 months postpartum, provided monthly milk samples for determination of calcium, magnesium, manganese, copper, iron, and zinc. Subjects remained in the study an average of 4 consecutive months, with a maximum participation of 9 months. Subject variation accounted for the majority of variance in the raw data. After statistically controlling subject effect, copper, iron, and zinc levels were shown to be significantly related to duration of lactation. Prediction equations for these three minerals were developed, making it possible to calculate, on an individual basis, the copper, iron, and zinc levels of milk to be produced in future months. Data were also collected to determine possible correlations between breast milk mineral levels and the maternal dietary intake, serum levels, or hair concentration of these same minerals. No significant correlation was found between the milk mineral content and any of the three parameters under study. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/495539/
Abstract: The content and composition of phospholipids were studied in the brain of children who died from severe malnutrition within the first 2 years of life, and compared with those obtained from well-nourished children who died of accidents, or of illnesses not known to affect the central nervous system. Each brain was separated into the constituent major parts--the forebrain, brain stem, and the cerebellum. With the exception of a few marasmic children under 1 year of age whose forebrain and cerebellum had higher phospholipid concentration than normal, the concentration of the lipids on dry weight basis in all brain regions of the malnourished children was the same, regardless of age, as that in the children who were normal nutritionally. However, the phospholipid:DNA ratio in the forebrain and the cerebellum of most of the malnourished children under 1 year of age was higher than normal. The brain stem of only a few malnourished children aged around 1 year also had higher phospholipid:DNA ratio than normal. Among the different phospholipids, sphingomyelin was found to be selectively decreased in each brain part of the malnourished children aged 1 year or more. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/495542/
Abstract: Vitamin B6 nutriture was assessed during pregnancy and lactation to determine possible relationships among vitamin B6 intake, levels of the vitamin in biological fluids and the condition of the infant at birth. Vitamin B6 levels were measured in maternal serum and in urine at 5 and 7 months gestation and at delivery, in cord serum and in milk at 3 and 14 days postpartum. Intake of vitamin B6, less than the Recommended Dietary Allowances (1974) for pregnancy and lactation, 2.5 mg/day, resulted in lower levels of the vitamin in maternal serum at delivery and in cord serum than higher intakes. Mothers whose infants had unsatisfactory Apgar scores at 1 min, (less than 7) had significantly low intakes of vitamin B6 and lower levels of the vitamin in both serum and milk than mothers whose infants had satisfactory scores, (greater than or equal to 7). At 5 months gestation, levels of vitamin B6 in maternal serum were significantly correlated with levels of the vitamin in cord serum and in milk at 14 days postpartum. This stage of gestation precedes the period of rapid growth of the central nervous system of the fetus, and is, therefore, a critical time for the assessment of maternal vitamin B6 nutriture. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/495535/
Abstract: Forty-four healthy free living volunteers were used to study the effect of the removal of eggs from a habitual egg-rich diet. The subjects, recruited by advertising, normally consumed at least 1 egg per day. During the 3-week experimental period they were not allowed to eat any eggs or products containing large amounts of eggs, except cakes and tarts. Elimination of eggs from a habitual egg-rich diet did result in a small but significant decrease in serum cholesterol levels in all subjects. No correlation could be demonstrated between changes in serum cholesterol levels and the age of the subjects and between changes in serum cholesterol levels and the numbers of eggs eaten per week before the experimental period. A significant negative correlation was found between changes in serum cholesterol levels and the Qutelet index for obesity and between changes in serum cholesterol levels and the serum cholesterol levels before the experimental period. The results indicate that a very variable response is present in a human population toward dietary cholesterol. More research seems to be necessary to describe and select the population of hyperresponders, the subjects who are more sensitive to changes in dietary cholesterol, and the hyporesponders. The results moreover indicate that effects of dietary changes in a free-living population are much smaller than can be accomplished in populations under controlled conditions. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/495541/
Abstract: Young adult male subjects maintained on a metabolic ward were fed diets providing controlled intakes of thiamin and either 2800 or 3600 kcal. The higher level of calories was attained by an increased intake of carbohydrates. Constant weights were maintained by the subjects by adjusting daily activity and exercise schedules. Thiamin requirements were evaluated in terms of erythrocyte transketolase activity and urinary excretion of the vitamin. The results of the study revealed that a relationship exists between thiamin requirement and caloric intake and expenditure. Thus, when the calories being utilized were derived primarily from carbohydrate sources, the minimum adult male requirement for thiamin appeared to be 0.30 mg of thiamin per 1000 kcal. Urinary excretion of thiamin and erythrocyte transketolase activity appear to be reasonably reliable reflections of thiamin intakes and thiamin nutritional status. The use of these measurements in nutrition surveys appears justified. The microbiological assay (Lactobacillus viridescens) for measuring thiamin levels in urine samples appears to be a somewhat more sensitive but valid procedure as an alternate for the thiochrome method. Judged from the results of this study, the recommended intake for the adult human of 0.40 mg of thiamin per 1000 kcal by FAO/WHO and the recommended allowance of 0.5 mg per 1000 kcal by the Food and Nutrition Board of the NAS-NRC appear reasonable and amply allow for biological variations and other factors that may influence the requirement for this vitamin. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/495549/
Abstract: Intakes and excretions of zinc, copper, and phosphorus were determined for 12 men when they consumed a diet low in fiber and when they consumed a diet containing fiber from fruits and vegetables (high-fiber diet). All subjects consumed both diets for 26 days each. The low-fiber diet was supplemented with copper so that it was equivalent to the high-fiber diet in this respect. Mean daily intakes on the low- and high-fiber diets, respectively, were: zinc, 13.2 and 12.6 mg; copper, 1.8 and 1.6 mg; phosphorus, 1.639 and 1.690 g. Mean daily balances on the low- and high-fiber diets, respectively, were: zinc, +3.5 and -0.9 mg; copper, +0.2 and -0.4 mg; phosphorus, +0.361 and +0.292 g. Zinc and copper balances differed significantly on the two diets (P less than 0.001 and P less than 0.005, respectively, but phosphorus balances did not. The fiber supplied by the fruits and vegetables contained more lignin and cellulose and less hemicellulose than would an equivalent amount of fiber from bran. The bran would supply more magnesium, zinc, and copper than this particular diet containing fruits and vegetables. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/495550/
Abstract: The effects of high-carbohydrate, high plant fiber (HCF) diets on glucose and lipid metabolism of 20 lean men receiving insulin therapy for diabetes mellitus were evaluated on a metabolic ward. All men received control diets for an average of 7 days followed by HCF diets for an average of 16 days. Diets were designed to be weight-maintaining and there were no significant alterations in body weight. The daily dose of insulin was lower for each patient on the HCF diet than on the control diet. The average insulin dose was reduced from 26 +/- 3 units/day (mean +/- SEM) on the control diets to 11 +/- 3 (P less than 0.001) on the HCF diets. On the HCF diets, insulin therapy could be discontinued in nine patients receiving 15 to 20 units/day and in two patients receiving 32 units/day. Fasting and 3-hr postprandial plasma glucose values were lower in most patients on the HCF diets than on the control diets despite lower insulin doses. Serum cholesterol values dropped from 206 +/- 10 mg/dl on the control diets to 147 +/- 5 (P less than 0.001) on the HCF diet; average fasting serum triglyceride values were not significantly altered on the HCF diets. These studies suggest that HCF diets may be the dietary therapy of choice for certain patients with the maturity-onset type of diabetes. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/495551/
Abstract: Weight, height, and arm circumference were measured in 7304 children 1 to 5 years old in Columbia, Costa Rica, the Dominican Republic, India, and Pakistan. Previously developed indices using these measures were applied to assess nutritional status, and the agreement between measures was compared. Weight for age and height for age deficits increased with age while weight for height deficits diminished. Many children diagnosed as mildly malnourished by weight for age were found to have normal weights for their actual heights. Deviations from weight for age norms were frequently due to height limitations. Highest positive correlation was found between weight and height, and between weight for age and height for age. Good agreement in malnutrition diagnoses was found between a weight for height limit of 90% of standard and a weight for age limit of 75% of standard. A cut-off point of 80% of standard weight for height was too low to detect most malnourished children. An age-constant arm circumference limit of 13.5 cm identified nearly all children with severe or acute malnutrition by weight for age or weight for height. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/495554/
Abstract: A precooked, instantized mixture of brown and black beans, with and without 0.3% DL-methione added, served as the only source of protein in the diets of 10 recovered malnourished infants and children 10 to 42 months of age. At 6.4 to 5.7% dietary protein calories stool wet weights were twice as high, apparent N absorption significantly lower (65.6 +/- 5.9 versus 87.5 +/- 2.3% of intake), and apparent N retention much lower (9.8 +/- 6.1 versus 34.5 +/- 10.2% of intake) than during preceding and following isocaloric and isonitrogenous casein-based diets. The addition of methionine resulted in minimal improvement in N retention and a highly suggestive increase in fasting plasma free methionine. Prolonged feeding of the methionine-enriched beans at 8.0 to 10.9% protein calories supported satisfactory growth and serum albumin levels in two of three children, not so in the smallest one, in whom repeated balance studies demonstrated no decrease over time in stool wet weight and on marginal improvement in N absorption and retention. The poor digestibility of the protein in these beans is the first-limiting factor in its utilization by infants and small children. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/495597/
Abstract: Cardiovascular risk factor variables were measured in a cohort of 440 infants at birth 6 months, and 1 year of age. Blood pressures at 6 months of age were 93/47 mm Hg (systolic/diastolic pressure, fourth phase) and 97/51 mm Hg at 1 year of age. Serum total cholesterol, beta-lipoprotein, and alpha-lipoprotein levels rose dramatically from birth to 1 year of age. Serum triglycerides also showed an increase from birth to 6 months of age, but a decrease from 6 months to 1 years of age. At 6 months of age, the infants were consuming 949 kcal and at 1 year, 1,356 kcal. A statistically significant correlation between serum cholesterol level and protein, fat, cholesterol, and carbohydrate intake was noted at 1 year of age. These observations provide a background for tracing the evolution of risk factor variables as part of the early natural history of arteriosclerosis. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/495556/
Abstract: This study has analyzed the nuclear DNA content of intraepithelial glandular lesions in diethylstilbestrol (DES)-exposed offspring. The endocervical cells and endometrial-tubal cells present in the vaginal adenosis and pericervical collars had a euploid distribution. However, greater proliferative activity was found among the endometrial-tubal cells. In the cells of vaginal adenosis of a postpartum woman without a confirmed history of maternal exposure to DES, a polyploid pattern was found, indicating that endometrial-tubal cells underwent hyperplastic changes under the influence of hormonal stimulation. In an atypical adenosis derived from endometrial-tubal cells, an aneuploid pattern was found. Based on these findings, it is suggested that endometrial-tubal cells have a greater proliferative potential than endocervical cells. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/510064/
Abstract: The gastric bypass is an effective surgical procedure for the treatment of extreme obesity. A small gastric reservoir and a narrow anastomosis are combined (to limit the possibility of food intake). In patients with a mean weight of 94% above the Broca value the normal weight is reached 18 months after the operation. Failure to lose weight can be caused by technical errors during the procedure or by a continuous food intake by the patients. Surgical complications are rare. The operative lethality is less than 1%, and anastomotic ulcers occur in 2% of cases. There is no reason to expect metabolic derangements as after jejunoileal bypass. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/510129/
Abstract: A study has been carried out on 262 children with juvenile diabetes and their parents, treated up to 10 yr on an ambulatory basis by a multidisciplinary team composed of pediatric endocrinologist, nurse, dietitian, psychologist, and social worker. Comparison of the findings with those of a study performed before inception of the Counselling Center for Juvenile Diabetics revealed the following positive influences: the degree of control attained was both higher and sustained with greater regularity; there were fewer complications with no episodes of coma, brittle diabetes, or severe ketoacidosis and almost no need for hospitalization; the attitude of the affected child, his parents, and his teachers was found to be considerably improved; there was better understanding of the nature of the disease and its requirements; the child's motivation to maintain the diabetic regimen was greater and conflicts within the family circle were markedly reduced; the child's self-concept was much higher; and both scholastic achievements and social adjustment were greater. We concluded that psychological stability is a basic factor in the control of diabetes, and the value of the multidisciplinary approach in the treatment of this chronic disease is indicated. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/510132/
Abstract: Plant fibers have important influences on gastrointestinal physiology and the absorption of many nutrients. Certain fibers delay the absorption of carbohydrates and result in less postprandial hyperglycemia. Because the intake of plant fibers lowers plasma glucose concentrations and decreases glycosuria, high-fiber foods may be useful in the management of diabetes mellitus. Consumption of selected fibers and fiber-rich foods lowers serum cholesterol values and may lower triglyceride concentrations. Plant fiber intake may lead to mineral depletion or vitamin deficiency, but this has not been observed in several long-term studies. Further work is required to delineate the therapeutic utility of plant fibers in the diet of persons with diabetes and to assess the undesirable effects of fiber intake. In our opinion, persons with diabetes who are eating very low-fiber diets would benefit from an increase in plant fiber intake from whole grains, legumes, and vegetables. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/509977/
Abstract: Dose-response studies in chemical carcinogenesis are a valuable method for evaluating the risk involved by a certain carcinogen. This article deals with the methods that are presently applied for dose-response studies. It is emphasized that there are many possible mistakes that are already hidden in the method itself; a critical approach is made to the indicative value of dose-response studies. It is also emphasized that the conclusions which may be drawn from dose-response studies can always only be extrapolative but never mathematically calculable. Finally, some practical examples for dose-response studies with n-nitroso compounds are described. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/510127/
Abstract: An attempt was made to improve the control of blood glucose in patients with insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus. Ten patients were studied over a period exceeding 8 mo in the outpatient department. Each patient was taught to monitor his or her own blood glucose concentration and was enrolled in an exercise program. In addition, they were taught to calibrate insulin, food, and exercise in terms of the response of the blood glucose. After 3 mo of study, there was a significant decrease in hemoglobin A1c (Hb A1c) values from a mean concentration of 10.3 to 7.6%. Hb A1c values correlated well with mean blood glucose levels (r = 0.86). Dietary analysis revealed that the patients selected a diet consisting of 25% protein, 44% fat, and 31% carbohydrate, but there was a wide range in caloric distribution. There was no correlation between blood glucose control as measured by Hb A1c and caloric distribution. Systolic blood pressures decreased greater than 10 mm Hg. Serum alkaline phosphatase also decreased in each patient as control of blood glucose improved. Three of the patients with abnormalities of nerve conduction measurement at the beginning of the study had a complete return to normal at 8 mo. An outpatient program such as this may be cost effective through the avoidance of diabetes-related hospitalizations and may provide a mechanism whereby larger studies can be designed to define further the relationship of glycemia to the sequelae of diabetes. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/510238/
Abstract: During the past 20 years considerable attention has been focused on the epidemiologic features of childhood lead poisoning in the United States. Large numbers of children with symptomatic intoxication, as well as those with incipient symptoms, were commonplace a decade ago for physicians working in inner-city hospitals. With the recent availability of improved screening techniques, as well as a variety of environmental control measures, the incidence of symptomatic lead poisoning in children has diminished significantly in recent years. With the focus shifting from children with dangerously elevated body lead burdens to those with less significant exposures, increased attention has been directed to the various inherent metabolic and physical characteristics of the young that may influence the toxic effects of lead exposure. A number of differences with respect to lead exposure, absorption and retention, and varying nutritional conditions between children and older individuals are discussed. Experimental studies dealing with age differences of lead-treated animals are examined, and relevant human studies are reviewed. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/510231/
Abstract: Under appropriate conditions, deficiencies of certain minerals and vitamins as well as high intakes of dietary fat increase the toxicity of a given dose of lead in experimental animals. The severity of lead poisoning can also be increased by the consumption of either deficient or excessive levels of protein. Mineral deficiencies appear to have some of the most profound effects on lead toxicity, since the consequences of plumbism can be exaggerated by feeding diets low in calcium, phosphorus, iron, zinc, and in some cases, copper. Evidence for an antagonism between lead and nutritional levels of selenium is inconclusive. Vitamin E deficiency and lead poisoning interact to produce an anemia in rats that is more severe than that caused by either treatment alone. Lead apparently exerts a pro-oxidant stress on the red cell, thereby causing its accelerated destruction. One of the biochemical mechanisms of lead poisoning may be the disruption of normal membrane architecture, thereby leading to peroxidative damage. Epidemiological surveys have suggested a negative correlation between the poor nutritional status of children with regard to calcium and the concentration of lead in blood. Other examples of potential interactions of mineral status and lead poisoning in humans include the hypothesized hazards of soft water to public health in areas with lead plumbing and the possible role of mineral deficiencies in the etiology of pica. Experimental studies have shown that in some situations combined nutritional deficiencies can have an additive effect in potentiating lead toxicity. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/510139/
Abstract: The plasma glucose and insulin response to a standardized meal test breakfast was compared with the time-honored glucose tolerance test in the same normal healthy subjects. The amplitude of glycemic excursion and between-subject variation was less with the more physiologic standardized test meal than with that seen with the glucose tolerance test. The glucose tolerance test's prime function is to amplify any glucose intolerance, thus aiding diagnosis, whereas a standardized meal gives a more clinically relevant metabolic status. The administration of serial test meals during the same day in a smaller group of normal subjects indicated, as seen previously with repeated glucose tolerance tests, a diminishing carbohydrate tolerance during the day. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/510246/
Abstract: Nutritional status can substantially modify the toxicity of environmental pollutants. Investigations with experimental animals and epidemiological observations on humans have established the role of nutrition in altering susceptibility to a variety of pollutants including pesticides and heavy metals. The degree of nutritional deficiency that alters susceptibility need not be severe. Frequently only biochemical indications of nutritional deficiency can be associated with changes in the dose-response of an animal or person to a toxic compound. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/510288/
Abstract: The effect of oral administration of galactose, lactose, and sucrose and intravenous injection of galactose on the urinary excretion of blood-group-active oligosaccharides has been studied. Galactose given either as the free sugar, a glycoside (lactose) or a constituent of normal diet was an absolute requirement for the formation and excretion of A-trisaccharide, B-trisaccharide and 2'-fucosylgalactose in blood group A, B and O(H) secretors, respectively. Great individual variation was seen in the amounts of galactose-dependent oligosaccharides excreted. Injection of galactose resulted in excretion of 3-59% of the amount of oligosaccharide formed after oral administration to the same individual. The mean ratio A-trisaccharide/B-trisaccharide was 2.7 in four blood-group-A1B secretors and 0.22 in three A2B secretors and can thus serve as a parameter for chemical differentiation between the two blood groups. The excretion of larger blood-group-active oligosaccharides, including the A-pentasaccharide, the B-pentasaccharide and lactodifucotetraose, that are normal components in urine from, respectively, starved A, B, and H secretors, was about the same after oral administration of galactose or lactose. The B-trisaccharide was the only oligosaccharide detected in plasma after oral galactose administration to a blood-group-B secretor individual. The concentration was 0.38 mg/l of plasma. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/510472/
Abstract: Inhibition of superoxide dismutase by diethyldithiocarbamate or cyanide increases the rate of red blood cells lysis after irradiation in the presence of protoporphyrin IX. Catalase activity, which is decreased during the photohemolytic process, appears to be not essential for the lytic event. No relationship between catalase activity and hemolysis rate was found. Superoxide dismutase appears to prevent only in part catalase inactivation by singlet oxygen. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/510240/
Abstract: The populations of the developed nations of the world exhibit an increase in blood pressure with age, while in primitive societies blood pressure remains relatively constant throughout adult life. Hypertension may be a complex of diseases all having the same clinical manifestations but not being caused necessarily by the same factors. A possible common denominator in the development of any chronic elevation of blood pressure is the need for the kidney to increase urine volume to promote sodium excretion and, thereby, prevent a chronically expanded extracellular fluid (ECF). Hypertension may be viewed as a maladaptation of the body in its attempt to maintain homeostasis of the ECF. Man evolved under conditions of relative scarcity of salt and even now can maintain normal body function with an intake of less than 2 g/day. The high risk person appears to have a hereditary predisposition to a rise in blood pressure in the presence of a high sodium (NaCl) intake. Actually, the degree of rise in blood pressure may be an interaction between the amount of genetic predisposition and the level of sodium and its relation to potassium intake. Recent work in two Massachusetts communities supports this interpretation and suggests that differences in blood pressure distribution may increase with age between a higher and lower sodium community. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/510248/
Abstract: The nutrient quality of the diet has been shown repeatedly to be a significant factor in modifying the response of man and animals to toxic element exposure. Deficiencies of several essential nutrients have been shown to exacerbate the effects of cadmium and supplements of such nutrients have been shown to ameliorate the toxicity. Thus the effects of exposure to a toxic element, such as cadmium, may vary, depending on interactions with other elements which are present in the diet in different concentrations. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/511076/
Abstract: For more than 4 years independent practitioners in the area of Wiesloch have led an intervening prophylactic treatment. Based on the recognition of heart and circulatory diseases, the program consists of sport with medical participation, a series of lectures and a course an dietary cooking. The results of 4 years show that there is success in normalising pathological risk factors. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/511011/
Abstract: Results in animals and in man indicate that in many circumstances, lipemia is not closely related to the severity of atherosclerosis nor to the incidence of coronary heart disease (CHD) or the intake of saturated fats as observed in paired studies between farmers from Moselle and Var in France and from West and East Scotland. In rabbits, an increased response of platelets to thrombin occurs before any deposition of cholesterol, as a result of a saturated fat feeding. Under these conditions, the addition of alcohol to the drinking water decreases significantly both the platelet response to thrombin and the severity of atherosclerotic lesions without much affecting plasma cholesterol. In farmers from Moselle and Var (as well as from Scotland), platelet functions, namely the aggregation to thrombin and their clotting activity, i.e. PF3, are closely related to the intake of saturated fats, either as a result of the long-term feeding or of a 1 year change in the diet of Moselle farmers. Certain platelet functions appear to be the only blood parameter related to the incidence of CHD and significantly correlated on a group, as well as on an individual basis, with the intake of saturated fat, and inversely related with that of calcium. Saturated fats and calcium are known to be the two main dietary factors related to CHD. These results suggest that the intermediate link between dietary fats and CHD might be blood platelets rather than serum lipids, through an effect on both thrombosis and atherosclerosis. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/511077/
Abstract: Rehabilitation of patients with myocardial (coronary) infarction during 1969/70 has been analyzed. Thereafter a therapeutic chain was organized with rapid transfer from the acute hospital to a rehabilitation clinic and further treatment in ambulatory coronary groups at residence. Participants and non-participants of ambulatory coronary groups from 1969 to 1976 were compared. The results concern the influence of organization, return to work, behavior of physicians and patients, risk factors and physical capacity. During the first three years under study the death rates of participants and non-participants of coronary groups were 1.3% per year. The small number of patients does not permit further interpretation. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/510935/
Abstract: The vitamin D status of residents of an old people's home and long-stay patients was assessed by means of plasma 25-hydroxycholecalciferol (25-OHD) estimations. The residents of the old people's home had a higher mean plasma 25-OHD concentration than long-stay patients. Both groups had diets with vitamin D intakes of less than 2.5 micrograms (100 IU) per day and the conclusion is that solar exposure is the major determinant of the concentration of circulating 25-OHD. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/511010/
Abstract: In Eskimos coronary heart disease is a rarity. This can partly be explained by their favorable plasma lipid levels. An additional factor seems, however, to be that in Eskimo food polyunsaturated fatty acids of the omega-3 series replace those of the omega-6 series. C20:5, omega-3 can be converted by the vessel wall to an antiaggregatory substance, whereas it has no proaggregatory effect on platelets. Consistent with these findings Eskimos were found to have a nearly 2-fold longer bleeding time than Danes. Platelet aggregability, too, was markedly depressed when exposing platelets from Eskimos to ADP and collagen. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/511086/
Abstract: It is explained that mathematical-statistical evalutions in epidemiologic investigations are not principally significant for the causal relationship of different events. This holds true especially for multifactorial connexions. Statistics is an auxiliary science, which is able to point to potential relationships, however, it is not a proof by itself. Unequivocal coincidental relationships can be connected statistically significant. In general the diseases which are related to a lack of fibers in food are typical prosperity diseases (civilization diseases). The same diseases were related earlier to an overconsumption of sugar and they are found also in overnutrition. By selection (e.g. the relation between dietary fibers and coronary heart diseases) and by ignoring important facts the conclusions can be manipulated. It is possible to show in some cases that wrong conclusions are drawn on the basis of a purely mathematical-statistical evalution of nutritional relationships. Even wrong data (e.g. for ethanol consumptions) are evaluated for many years. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/526017/
Abstract: The hypothesis that eating pork from animals infected with organisms of the Mycobacterium avium-intracellular complex is a significant cause of human mycobacteriosis was examined by skin testing students with purified protein derivative from M. intracellulare to determine their sensitivity to M. avium-intracellulare. No significant differences in sensitivity could be demonstrated between those individuals who had never eaten pork and those who ate pork routinely. It was concluded that sensitivity to purified protein derivative from M. intracellulare in this population did not involve eating pork. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/527272/
Abstract: Multivitamin preparations are commonly administered to regular dialysis treatment (RDT) patients. Serum Vitamin A was measured in 72 patients on RDT. Elevated serum Vitamin A levels (102.29 +/- 26.95 microgram/dl [3.57 +/- 0.94 mumoles/l]) were found in the dialysis population (normal 40.98 +/- 6.71 microgram/dl [1.43 +/- 0.23 mumoles/l]; P less than 0.0005). Serum Vitamin A levels increased with duration (months) of dialysis but not with frequency of dialysis (twice or thrice weekly). Patients taking a VitaminA-containing multivitamin preparation had higher serum Vitamin A levels than those on a non-Vitamin A supplemented diet. Bilaterally nephrectomized patients had the highest serum Vitamin A levels while patients with obstructive uropathy had the lowest levels. Serum Vitamin A levels did not correlate with symptoms of uremia. Positive correlations were found with serum levels of calcium, cholesterol and triglycerides. Patients receiving a Vitamin A supplement had higher serum cholesterol levels than non-supplemented patients. Vitamin A might be a factor in the high incidence of cardiovascular disease in RDT patients. We therefore advise discontinuing the long-term administration of Vitamin A-containing multivitamin supplements to patients on RDT. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/527426/
Abstract: We feel that a pedicle graft of omentum makes an excellent protective wrapping about low anterior resections. We do not propose the technique to cover sloppily constructed anastomoses. Good nutrition, proper timing, adequate bowel preparation, and good surgical technique are the keys to successful low anterior resection, while omental pedicle grafting adds a further dimension in helping to assure a complication-free postoperative course. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/527359/
Abstract: Our experience with nitrogen-free analog therapy of these disorders indicates that these compounds are adequate nutritional supplements which are non-toxic and which promote mental and somatic growth. They prevent or reduce hyperammonemia for varying periods of time in three of these disorders, but as yet have not prevented hyperammonemic coma and death in infants with complete enzyme deficiencies. Further work wi-l be necessary to determine how impending hyperammonemic coma can be detected before it becomes irreversible, as asll as to improve the therapy of hyperammonemic coma when it develops. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/527354/
Abstract: A new high concentration nitrogen source solution ('Aminofusin' L Forte) was evaluated in 9 patients requiring complete parenteral nutrition regimens. Excellent clinical tolerance was observed and the solution proved capable of maintaining patients in nitrogen balance. Although the non-essential part of the amino acid profile is incomplete, no significant deviations from the normal range in plasma amino acid concentrations were noted. It is concluded that the solution is a useful addition to the range of amino acid preparations available for intravenous feeding. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/527527/
Abstract: A total of 133 breast fed newborn babies, and 106 bottle fed babies, were selected and studied prospectively. Details taken of feeding practices have shown that by 5--7 wk of age bottle feeds had been introduced in about 50% of breast fed babies. Entirely breast fed babies received their first solid food later than breast-and-bottle fed or entirely bottle fed babies when such babies were in social class I, II or III, but in social class IV and V entirely breast fed babies were weaned at a similar age to those in the other two groups of babies. In the first 5--7 wk of life there was a significant negative correlation between the increase in skinfold thickness and the skinfold thickness at birth. The study has also shown that the present practice of feeding babies modified milks retards weight gain and the increase in subcutaneous fat in male babies. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/527522/
Abstract: Diet compositions and breast milk levels of free amino acids, protein, and lipid were compared in lactating American and Guatemalan women. The protein in the American diet derived principally from animal sources, whereas that in the Guatemalan diet was based most exclusively on cereal grains and legumes. Corn, in the form of cornmeal, was the predominant food. Because of these dietary differences, the Guatemalan women consumed significantly smaller amounts of protein than the American women. The concentrations of most of the free amino acids in aliquots of breast milk from the Guatemalan women were lower than those in samples from the American women. In particular, tryptophan and lysine levels were 23% and 29%, respectively, of the levels in the American breast milk samples. The Guatemalan samples contained less protein, and, when values from Guatemalan women who had nursed only for 6 mth or less were considered, the fat content was also less than in the American samples. The lipid content of the milk, however, did not differ between the two groups when the length of the lactation period was not controlled. The substantial cultural differences between the two groups in the frequency and duration of nursing probably prevented the identification of a clear dietary influence on milk lipid content. The correlations found between diet composition and either the amount of protein or the levels of free amino acids in breast milk suggest that, if a mother's diet is deficient in high-quality protein, the deficiency may be reflected in the composition of her milk, perhaps to the detriment of the nursing infant. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/527528/
Abstract: The measurement of weight, length and head circumference at birth was used to document the size and shape of infants born at term in a population where mothers are relatively short and underweight. Different patterns of intrauterine growth are proposed to explain the variation in the infant's appearance at birth. Most of the small-for-gestational-age infants were proportionately stunted. This pattern of fetal growth is probably characteristic of infants born to undernourished mothers in economically developing communities, and reflects prolonged intrauterine growth retardation. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/527562/
Abstract: The serum estradiol concentration and bone mineral content of the right radius were determined in 34 postmenopausal females. Regression analysis showed a significant positive correlation between the serum estradiol concentration and bone mineral content of the right radius (r=0.477, p less than 0.01). These results support the view that the decreased level of serum estrogens is one of the major factors involved in the loss of bone mass with age. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/527621/
Abstract: Psychosocial and health data were obtained from 50 black and 47 white females age 65 and over. The women were divided according to whether they lived alone, with spouse only, or with persons other than (or in addition to) the spouse. Those living alone were found to have lower life satisfaction, lower self-esteem, and higher social dysfunction than those living with spouse or others. No differences were found with respect to depression, somatization, diet, or activity level. There was a significant interaction effect between race and living arrangement with respect to anxiety, with blacks being less anxious than whites when living with others, and more anxious when living alone or with only a spouse. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/527872/
Abstract: In normal, duodenal ulcer, and gastric ulcer subjects the two main forms of gastrin, G17 and G34, were estimated by radioimmunoassay in fasting serum and after feeding. Two antisera were used: one showing high specificity for G17, the other specific for the common COOH-terminus of G17 and G34 and so allowing estimation of G34 by difference. Basal G17 was similar in gastric ulcer, duodenal ulcer, and normal subjects and the increases of G17 after feeding were also similar in these groups. In contrast, basal G34 was similar in normal and duodenal ulcer subjects but raised in gastric ulcer subjects. After a meal the G34 concentration in both gastric and duodenal ulcer patients was significantly higher than normal. It is concluded that the higher post-prandial gastrin responses in peptic ulcer that have been previously described are due largely to increased G34. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/527884/
Abstract: To investigate the possibility of measuring urinary oxalate output instead of faecal fat excretion as an outpatient screening test for steatorrhoea, we determined 24 hour urinary oxalate and five day faecal fat excretion before and during an oral load of sodium oxalate 600 mg daily (oxalate 4.44 mmol), in 32 patients with suspected malabsorption on a diet containing oxalate 30 mg (0.33 mmol), fat 50 g (180 mmol), and calcium 1 g (25 mmol). Nineteen patients proved to have steatorrhoea (mean faecal fat 62 mmol/24 h, range 19--186 mmol) of varying aetiologies. On the diet alone, urinary oxalate was raised in only nine of these patients (mean 0.25 mmol/24 h, range 0.08--0.59 mmol) (normal less than 0.20). By contrast, when the diet was supplemented with oral sodium oxalate, all 19 patients with steatorrhoea had hyperoxaluria (mean 0.91 mmol/24 h, range 0.46--1.44 mmol) (normal less than 0.44). There was a significant positive linear relationship between urinary oxalate and faecal fat when the 32 patients were on the high oxalate intake (r = 0.73, P less than 0.001), but not when they were on the low oxalate intake. Mean percentage absorption of orally administered oxalate was 5.8 +/- 0.99% (+/- 1 SD) in normal subjects and 14.7 +/- 6.0% (P less than 0.002) in patients with steatorrhoea. Measurement of urinary oxalate output during oral sodium oxalate loading appears to be a reliable and convenient screening test for steatorrhoea. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/527883/
Abstract: The disappearance of intravenously administered cholylglycine-14C was studied in the fasting and postprandial states in seven subjects with healthy livers and 10 patients with liver disease. In neither group was there any significant difference in the pattern of 14C disappearance. In another 10 patients with liver disease there was no significant change when a loading dose of cholylglycine was given orally two hours beforehand. Clearance of bile acids seems to be unimpaired in all except severe liver disease. The apparent deterioration in endogenous bile acid removal after meals may be due simply to the increased amount of bile acids which are in circulation and available for portosystemic shunting. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/527885/
Abstract: Manometric studies of the sigmoid colon were performed on 17 healthy volunteers and on 49 constipated patients, after a long period of fasting (18--20 hours). Motility was recorded using perfused catheters at basal level during 45 minutes, then 60 minutes after a 0.5 mg intravenous injection of neostigmine, and, finally, 30 minutes during and after a meal. Motor activity was assessed by a motility index (per cent of activity x mean amplitude of waves). In both normal and constipated patients, the basal motility index was very low (respectively 82 +/- 16 and 110 +/- 113). This low level of activity was due to the long fasting period imposed on all the subjects. After neostigmine the motility index increased in both controls (347 +/- 256) and constipated patients (311 +/- 325); this test, however was found to be unreliable. The meal increased the motility index to significantly higher values than after neostigmine in controls (538 +/- 215). In constipated patients the mean meal motility index was comparable with that of controls (577 +/- 549) with a large distribution of individual values. Using the mean meal motility index +/- 2 SD of the control group as a term of comparison, the patients were segregated into three groups: 'hypomotor' patients (eight cases), 'normomotor' patients (33 cases), and 'hypermotor' patients (eight cases). From the evidence of this series of clinically well-defined constipated patients, it was concluded that only the meal test is able to segregate three significant patterns of sigmoid activity and that a large number (68%) of constipated patients exhibit normal sigmoid motor activity. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/542501/
Abstract: The atheromas of adult aortas have been found to be composed mostly of tabular crystals of a highly insoluble cholesterol-cholestanol-water adduct designated C-C-2W. Early feeding of cholestanol risks precipitation of C-C-2W on the incomplete membranes of infants. Resultant impairment of cell permeability and reactivity can give rise to incipient atherosclerosis. The pathological condition becomes patent only with adulthood, when the aorta intima-media will be stacked with the adduct and fatty streaks will occur. Cholesterol, as provided by the usual dietary sources, contains from 3 to 10% of cholestanol, quantities more than sufficient to reach the solubility product of C-C-2W: 10(-7) mg/ml. It follows that much atherosclerosis could be avoided if cholestanol-containing foods, specifically dietary cholesterol, were not fed to infants or children. Cholestanolosis and hypercholestanolemia are new concepts to be considered in dietary approaches to control of atherosclerosis. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/542881/
Abstract: People mainly depend on food that can be produced on arable land. However, the amount of this land is strictly limited and is less than is generally assumed. Particularly in the developing countries it is usually very fully exploited, but the crop yields obtained are poor and all too often the productive capacity is steadily decreasing. Efforts to improve conditions were often successful, but they have been largely arrested by the rapid rise in the cost of energy. These improvements were partly responsible for a slight rise in the standard of living, sufficient to cause a corresponding slight reduction in the awesome rate at which the population was increasing. For the same reason this encouraging tendency can no longer be expected; indeed it will be reversed. Other adverse effects must be expected from this new factor which will increase the gravity of a situation already so very serious. More and more people cannot be nourished by land that is becoming less and less productive. But how can the nations be awakened from their mutual suspicions and fears? From their preoccupation with creating ever more deadly tools of destruction? How can they be made to see the magnitude of the danger which will affect them all? Is there not an urgent need for them to draw on their immense resources and engage in a concerted effort, on an adequate scale, to win what is becoming a war for survival? 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/542882/
Abstract: Whether South Africa can grow enough food over the next 20 years to meet the needs of a population estimated to be increasing by up to 1 million a year depends primarily on the extent, nature and condition of its natural resources and secondly on how they will be conserved and used. These, together with other relevant matters, are the subjects considered for both White and Black areas, especially as they affect the production of our basic foodstuff--maize. The maize production potential of the homelands is considerable, but at present they are largely dependent on imports obtained from White farms. Possible reasons for this unhealthy state of affairs are discussed. What can be done to enable the homelands to make their contribution to the food supplies of the country? 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/542919/
Abstract: Sixteen male patients with stable chronic obstructive airways disease were separated into two groups of eight according to arterial carbon dioxide tensions. Hypercapnia was associated with lower arterial oxygen tensions, higher red cell volume, and increased weight, while normocapnic subjects were decidedly thin. The considerable difference in body weight between the two groups could not be explained by variation in caloric intake, and malabsorption was excluded as a cause of weight loss in the underweight subjects. Serum tri-iodothyronine, thyroxine, cortisol, and oestradiol concentrations were similar and normal in each group, but both groups had significantly low testosterone values as compared with controls, values in the hypercapnic being appreciably lower than in the normocapnic group. The adrenal androgen dehydroepiandrosterone was significantly high in the normocapnic group and low in the hypercapnic group compared with controls. Serum pituitary luteinising and follicle stimulating hormones were normal, but three hypercapnic individuals had high serum prolactin values. Early morning urinary aldosterone values were significantly higher in the hypercapnic than in the normocapnic group. Such hormone comparisons have not previously been made in subjects with chronic obstructive airways disease grouped according to arterial blood gas values, and it is concluded that major alterations in adrenal and testicular function may occur, possibly due to pituitary suppression from hypoxia. Such hormonal changes might in part account for the contrasting alterations in body habitus found in this condition. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/542994/
Abstract: In a village population in N. Nigeria the Fulani form a heterogeneous group in comparison with the Hausa and Maguzawa people. It was demonstrated that, apart from having a different body build, Fulani men have on the average lower haemoglobin concentrations, more splenomegaly and higher IgM and IgG concentrations. Splenomegaly and higher IgM levels were correlated in the Fulani only, and this probably is a manifestation of their altered immune response to malaria, which is manifested by the prolonged parasitaemia in Fulani men suggesting that their control over malaria parasites is less effective. Very high IgM levels (more than 9.6 g/l) were present in 6/70 (9%) of Fulani and in none of the others. According to the criteria used the Tropical Splenomegaly Syndrome could be diagnosed in 4/70 (6%) of Fulani and in 2/89 (2%) of Hausa and Maguzawa. A nutritional factor, presumably iron intake, and Schistoma haematobium infections appeared to be determinants of haemoglobin concentration in the Hausa and Maguzawa. In Fulani a different pattern emerged characterised by the nutritional factor and a haemolytic factor related to the sickle cell trait. The frequency of the sickle cell trait, however, was similar in all tribes. The significance of the findings is discussed and it is suggested that the heterogeneity of Fulani is possibly due to their less complete adaptation to stable malaria. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/542993/
Abstract: In the rural parts of nine regencies of the province of East Java Indonesia, in the dry seasons of 1975 and 1976 extensive nutrition surveys were carried out. So designated surplus, marginal and minus areas were included. Social and hygienic features of the household were recorded. The reproductive characteristics of the mother population were noted. Anthropometric data were collected. Their diet, including consumption frequency of staple and secondary foodstuffs, was registered by interview. Of a total of 3,828 mothers of children 0--15 years old 37% were lactating and 6.7% were pregnant. Of the latter some 10% were still nursing a child. The number of live children per family was rather small (2.0--3.4) and the percent of those who had died was high (10--31%). Average height of the mothers was 149 cm and weight 42 kg. A cross-sectional calculation of weight gain during pregnancy resulted in 5.0--7.4 kg. Lactating mothers showed a higher weight-height ratio than non-lactating or pregnant. Taking 90% of the Indonesian standard of weight-for-height as cut-off point for an acceptable nutritional status, 18--24% of the nonpregnant non-lactating, 13--35% of the lactating and 33--57% of the pregnant mothers fell below that standard. Considerable and rather unexpected differences existed between regencies. Low percentages of illiteracy and highest of child survival were found in an area designated as 'minus' for per capita income and food production. Only in Sidoarjo was rice the most frequently consumed staple food. In Trenggalek (south coast) and in Sampang (Madura) it was cassava. In Blitar (south coast) it was rice, maize and cassava mixed or varying according to season. In the remaining six regions a mixture of rice and maize was the common food. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/543179/
Abstract: The most frequent deficiency state in our population, the sideropenia, is caused by decreased intake, increased losses and increased need of iron. In certain groups of persons, in whom sideropenias are particularly frequent, a prevention of iron deficiency is to be recommended by the application of iron preparations, above all during puberty and gravidity, in strongly menstruating women and in persons who more than twice a year act as blood donors. The quantity of iron which is to be added in hypoferric anaemic is easily to be calculated from the existing deficit of haemoglobin; the substitution of iron mostly demands an oral therapy lasting several weeks, in more severe anaemias started by intravenous applications of iron, if necessary. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/543334/
Abstract: Preoperative differential diagnosis of obstructive jaundice by simple methods may be useful for screening and for planning the operation. Interpreting the statistical evaluation of parameters of 89 patients it is suggested to use the "index of alimentation", i.e. the deviation from Broca's normal weight in percent. Its sensitivity and specifity is about 80%. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/543350/
Abstract: At the Central Laboratory for Streptococci Research at the Institute for Hygiene of the Federal Dairy Research Centre in Kiel a data bank has been established which comprises as well bibliographical data (until now more than 8000 titles out of the international literature concerning streptococci) as laboratory data of all strains which have been identified since 1965. For this present publication as a survey the total material covering 34,935 strains was analyzed and interpreted. Besides a short introduction describing the general examination procedure for streptococci and the encoding of results for the data bank the material is condensed in different tables considering the incidence of pathogenic species occuring mainly in man and animals. In addition findings of enterococci and lactic streptococci are presented. 41.8% of the strains examined were isolated from human specimens, 46.7% from cattle and the remaining ones from pigs, horses, dogs, laboratory animals and others. Only 2.0% of all cultures could not be identified as one of the known species. Remarkable observations are - the high incidence of group B-Streptococci in man - the unexpected frequency of typical "human" streptococci as those of group F and G and also Sc. milleri and Sc. MG in different animals - the possible interrelation of group L- and P-streptococci in pigs and cattle - the overlap of Sc. faecalis and Sc. faecium in man and animals showing no typical distribution as it is postulated in the literature - the high percentage of unidentifiable streptococci from pigs and laboratory animals as an eventual indication for some new species. In consecuting papers some problems emerging from the presented material and own experiments will be discussed as - interrelation of group B-Streptococci in man and cattle - incidence and importance of enterococci in humans, animals and foodstuffs and - classification of species not to identify by serological grouping. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/543508/
Abstract: Glutathione peroxidase, a selenium-dependent enzyme, and tocopherol interact and may, indeed, compensate for deficiencies of one or the other. Iron-supplemented, "tocopherol-sufficient," low-birth-weight premature infants fed (selenium-poor) formulas rich in polyunsaturated fatty acid (greater than 35% of fat as PUFA) develop severe hemolysis secondary to erythrocyte phosphatidyl ethanolamine loss. By further increasing tocopherol supplementation one can prevent the clinical expression of a relative tocopherol and an absolute selenium--glutathione peroxidase deficiency. Selenium-poor cow's milk preparations containing 12--15% of fat as polyunsaturated fatty acids, trace amounts of iron, and 12--15 mg/liter of tocopherol are sufficient to maintain proper nutrition without risk of increased peroxidation. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/543644/
Abstract: A technique for second-stage revision of a cervical apron flap is described. Food particle retention and pocketing in hair-bearing recesses can be minimized by accurately trimming and contouring the flap to fit smoothly into the oral defect. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/543770/
Abstract: A screening method for the characterization and differentiation of proteinaceous samples and amino acid mixtures was applied to protein foods (4 protein-rich mixtures, one product sold as dietary supplement, and 3 raw materials of frequent use in the preparation of these products). Graphic profiles which describe the relative amounts of amino acid groups in the samples were obtained and subjected to statistical analysis. According to a previously established criterion of identity or difference, the correlation coefficients showed that at least 90% of the comparisons dealt with different samples. The method is proposed as a valuable tool for the quality control of protein-rich foods and their raw materials. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/543769/
Abstract: The competition between cereals and root crops as CARICOM staples is described. The move to substitute locally grown food for imported wheat is shown to favor root crop development in the region. Against this background, traditional nutrition-prompted objections to wheat substitution by root crops are examined. Evidence is cited to show the essential adequacy of protein in root crops, except plantain and cassava and for all humans except perhaps some infants. The low protein in cassava and plantain, it is proposed, can be easily overcome in the process of local root crop development. Finally, it is argued that there exists the potential to obtain cheap calories from root crops. This and the generation of economic activity among small farmers, concomitant with root crop development, are seen as possible indicators of good nutrition for the region in the future. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/543781/
Abstract: Correlations between obesity and prognosis of operated cancer of the breast have not been investigated until now. In 491 patients operated upon by radical mastectomy (1968 to 1972) it can be demonstrated that in patients in whom the weight of the resected breast is above 1100 g the survival rates are more unfavourable than in other cases. As to tumor size and invasion of lymphnodes the distribution in the group with "heavy breasts" is more unfavourable than in the other groups. The causes of the differences in survival may be attributed to worsened conditions for detection of cancer in cases with large breasts as well as to alterations of hormone production and metabolism in connection with nutritional factors. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/587329/
Abstract: Patients facing a lifelong disease condition need time and feedback from knowledgeable health professionals to achieve successful treatment compliance. Long-established behavior may need to be changed and the patient and his family need support during the process. Day-to-day problems must be viewed as important and time must be taken to help the patient find acceptable therapeutic solutions. Establishing the diagnosis of diabetes and prescribing diet and medications are only the beginning of a time-consuming, difficult educational process for the patient. Unfortunately, most health care resources are directed to the patient. Unfortunately, most health care resources are directed to the initial diagnosis and treatment or the treatment of complications. Many dollars may be saved and the patient may have a better chance at a more normal life if some time and effort are directed to making him a more knowledgeable therapeutic agent. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/587327/
Abstract: Martha, an elderly patient, presented a real challenge to our nursing staff. As a new diabetic, she needed a great deal of education in addition to extensive nursing care for her multiple bleeding leg ulcers, dehydration and malnutrition due to uncontrolled diabetes, and reactive depression. Despite these problems, in approximately one month's time Martha was able to return to her home in control of her diabetes and her emotions and ambulating without pain. Her successful return to normal life was enhanced by holistic nursing management. The nursing staff found that the use of a problem list and a diabetes educational plan assisted them in individualizing their patient care. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/604927/
Abstract: Studies on the antibiotic resistance of bacterial flora isolated from stool, over these last ten years, have shown an increase of resistant strains to antibiotics. This resistance may depend on genes localized on the chromosome, or more frequently on extra-chromosomic DNA (R plasmid) which carries resistance to several antibiotic groups and which is spreading. The origin of multiple resistant bacteria could be twofold. The only one, which is considered in this paper, is the intake of exogenous bacteria already resistant and carried in food: beef, pork, chicken, having had some form of antibiotics--either supplementation to feeding to improve growth-or for prophylactic or therapeutic purposes. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/604360/
Abstract: A patient with multiple injuries developed a severe coagulation defect due to a deficiency of vitamin K. None of the usual predisposing factors was present and the patient's diet was very poor. Dietary deficiency of vitamin K and the importance of antibiotic therapy in its production are discussed. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/605356/
Abstract: The absorption of a quartenary (propantheline, 30 mg) and a tetiary (1-hyoscyamine, 0.8 mg) anticholinergic compound was studied in 8 healthy volunteers by measuring the effects on salivation. Both compounds were administered as rapidly disintegrating tablets, 1-hyoscyamine also in a slow-release formulation (Egazil Durules). The three preparations and placebo were administered under fasting conditions and with a standardized light meal using a randomized cross-over design. Salivation measurement were performed with a citric acid stimulation method every hour for 10 hours. In the fasting patient, all three anticholinergic test preparations decreased the salivation significantly. When taken with food, the effect of propantheline was almost abolished, while the effects of the 1-hyoscyamine preparations were uninfluenced. It was concluded that the clinical effects of proprantheline might be extremely varying depending how the drug is taken in relation to meals. In contrast the clinical effects of 1-hyoscyamine seem to be independent of food intake. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/604729/
Abstract: Salt dependent gram-negative bacilli responsible for gastroenteritis and tissue infections are often not recovered because proper media for isolation are not used. A salt-starch XLD agar with 1.5% NaC1 and 0.5% starch medium has been found to permit the isolation of pathogenic Enterobacteriaceae, non-Enterobacteriaceae gram-negative bacilli, and salt-dependent gram-negative bacilli, among which is Vibrio parahemolyticus. As far as the Enterobacteriaceae are concerned, the selectivity and sensitivity of the medium are the same as with standard media with the added advantage of isolating salt-dependent organisms, thereby saving time and money. It can be used for routine blood cultures, investigation of sea water, seafood and tissue infections related to marine activities. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/605350/
Abstract: Nineteen patients with suspected coeliac disease were examined by duodenoscopy and biopsy. In all patients a histopathology consistent with coeliac disease was demonstrated in endoscopic biopsies of the duodenal mucosa. On close-up view villous atrophy was seen in vivo. Fourteen patients were re-examined on a gluten-free diet. In 13 patients a restitution of the duodenal mucosa was shown. Duodenoscopy combined with biopsy seems to be a reliable method for the assessment of the mucosal change in coeliac disease. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/605681/
Abstract: The study aims to establish whether recovery from myocardial infarction is the strongest or, alternatively, the only motivation toward changing unhealthy habits of living and eating and to what extent such patients and overtly healthy persons are prepared to receive advice to take measures to prevent myocardial infarction. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/605668/
Abstract: Programme and course of the Basle Kindergarten Study are presented. This study has to describe and analyse the somatic and psychosocial development of children of foreign workers, of people from other swiss cantons and of locals to get ideas referred to prevention. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/605627/
Abstract: Coffee as a rule develops stimulating effects on the central nervous system, heart and circulation which are mainly caused by caffeine. In certain cases coffee may also have a sedative effect and sometimes even it is useful to fall asleep quickly. Furthermore coffee may be advantageous in the treatment of some functional disorders caused by lacking of dopamine, because coffee is able to increase the dopamine formation in brain. Concerning the effects of coffee in the gastrointestinal-tract and liver-bile system caffeine is only of secondary importance. Hereby certain roasting substances, possibly also chlorogenic acid or caffeic acid should be responsible for the stimulating effects observed in these organs. These stimulating effects could be caused whether directly or indirect e.g. by liberating gastrin or other gastrointestinal hormones. Vitamin niacin, which is formed in greater amounts from trigonelline during the roasting process, may also be important from the nutritional standpoint. Therefore coffee may be prescribed as a true drug in cases of deficiency in vitamin niacin or also in the pellagra disease. By extensive epidemiological studies performed lately it could be demonstrated that there exists no correlation between coffee consumption and certain risk factors as hypertension, heart infarction, diabetes, gout or cancer diseases. Furthermore there was no evidence that coffee or its caffeine content are able to induce genetic alterations or even malformations. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/605735/
Abstract: In order to asses accuracy and consistency of diagnostic opinion in suspected pancreatic disease, using available diagnostic procedures 74 patients, subjected to selective angiography, pancreatic function test (Lundh test), and scintigraphy, were studied retrospectively. The patients were divided into four diagnostic subgroups, three of which represented defined pancreatic disease, the fourth serving as a control group since such disease could be excluded. The primary diagnostic results were compared. After a stipulated minimum of six months the angiographic films and scintigraphic recordings were re-appraised in a randomized manner without access to clinical data. The evaluations thus achieved were compared to those delivered primarily. The results of the present study seem to indicate that the Lundh test and pancreatic scintigraphy are screening tests with a high level of diagnostic reliability and consistency; when normal, practically ruling out pancreatic disease. Angiography is recommendable only if one or both of the above mentioned screening methods yield pathologic results, supported by clinical evidence. The principal aims of selective angiography in suscepted pancreatic disease, are to map vascular anatomy, to differentiate non-neoplastic disease from cancer and to assist estimation of operability. The results of the reappraisal indicate that the diagnostic accuracy of angiography, more than that of scintigraphy, is dependent on the experience of the examiner. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/605890/
Abstract: Two cases of rapidly progressive fatal liver disease in females after by-pass surgery for obesity are reported. Histologically the livers are similar to the florid cirrhosis of the alcoholic described by Popper and Szanto. It is postulated that the nutritional disturbance, including protein deficiency, and large amounts of fatty acids delivered to the liver from the fat depots, results in fatty metamorphosis, the Mallory bodies and finally cirrhosis. Bacterial toxins from the excluded loop of intestine may contribute to this process. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/605901/
Abstract: In this Comment, Dr. Altschule contends that in a variety of ways the American legal system currently is endangering the existence of positive physician-patient relationships, which are essential to the effective practice of medicine. First, he contends, physicians are exposed to an excessively high risk of liability for malpractice, and as a result must substitute the use of "defensive," often unnecessary laboratory tests for reliance on their own sound medical judgment. Second, the confidentiality of communications between physicians and patients is receiving inadequate legal protection; therefore, patients often are hesitant to reveal aspects of their medical history that may be critical to their case. Third, the federal government, by its medically inappropriate attempts to ban drugs that do not meet certain federal "safe and effective" standards, and to ban food additives that fail to pass certain federally controlled tests aimed at determining whether the additive causes cancer, is making it increasingly difficult for physicians to prescribe substances that may be of great value to their patients. The author warns that our society's failure to substantially alleviate such problems is likely to lead to an inferior brand of medical practice. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/606169/
Abstract: Fasting plasma concentrations of triglycerides (TG), cholesterol, immunoreactive insulin (IRI), and blood glucose were raised in 16 children with chronic renal failure on regular haemodialysis compared with 18 healthy children. In the patients plasma IRI correlated positively with plasma TG, while blood glucose did not correlate with IRI or lipid concentrations. Dietary intake, expressed as percentage of recommended intake for height-age, did not correlate with plasma lipids, but there was a positive correlation between plasma TG and the proportion of calories derived from carbohydrate. The children were not malnourished as evidenced by normal plasma albumin and transferrin concentrations. The mechanism of the hyperlipidaemia is unclear but it may be related to the glucose intolerance with hyperinsulinaemia which is found in uraemia. In view of the risk of premature atherosclerosis, plasma lipid concentrations should be monitored in children with chronic renal failure and attempts made to ameliorate hyperlipidaemia with appropriate dietary manipulations. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/606256/
Abstract: The growth of young rats was arrested for 6 weeks from 48 h after receiving an injection of L-[5-3H]proline. The 3H in the hydroxyproline of the newly synthesized skin collagen remained steady during under-nutrition and did not decrease during the subsequent recovery period. It was concluded that in this animal model the renewed growth did not induce degradation of the pre-existing collagen fibres. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/561756/
Abstract: Looking back over the past centuries, a survey shows that for the past 2000 years definite dietetic rules have existed for the treatment of liver diseases, which to a great extent have disregarded the distribution of protein and carbohydrates. Deviations from the principles of nutrition followed as a result of intensive physiological-chemical research during the 19th century. This new knowledge, however, lead to misinterpretation and exaggerations in the recommended dietary proportions of fat, protein and carbohydrates. Protein deficiency, which is particularly disadvantageous in cases of hepatitis during pregnancy, and lack of vitamins, along with other types of malnutrition, became apparent. Various attempts providing diets rich in protein and fat, for the treatment of hepatitis, proved rather the tolerance of these nutrients than discovering a new, more efficient therapy. In spite of some resignation, recommendations made on the basis of experience should rather be dispensed with, as regards diet, and the search for further knowledge of the supply of nutrients in liver diseases should be continued. In addition, the study of endotoxins and toxic amines in the metabolism of the brain offers a source of future research. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/561832/
Abstract: Geophagia, in the form of clay-eating, is often observed during pregnancy in the human population. The intent of this study was to determine the effects of kaolin (clay) ingestion on the maternal blood and embryonic development of the pregnant rat. Thirty-six Sprague-dawley female rats were divided into three groups: control diet, 20% kaolin diet, and iron-supplemented 20% kaolin diet. The diets were fed 37 to 68 days, 69 to 95 days, and 96 to 117 days prior to fertilization, and the same diets were fed for the duration of the gestation period. The rats fed the kaolin diet exhibited significant reductions in hemoglobin, hematocrit, and red blood cell levels, thus indicating maternal anemia. There was also a significant reduction in the birth weight of the pups born to kaolin fed rats. The kaolin fed rats receiving an iron supplement maintained hematocrit, hemoglobin, red blood cell levels, and pup weight within the normal range. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/561518/
Abstract: The evidence of the present study suggests a strong and possibly causal relationship between high-extraction cereal and rickets and osteomalacia. It seems likely that this occurs when vitamin-D status is border-line. The rachitogenic component of high-extraction cereal remains to be identified; dietary phytate now seems unlikely and phytate-derived polyphosphate esters or dietary phosphorus may be incriminated. The present study strongly indicates that Mellanby's original suggestion of an "anti-calcifying substance" in high-extraction cereal remains valid. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/561692/
Abstract: Since 1955, a number of outbreaks of arsenic poisoning have occurred throughout Japan among industrial workers and the general population. The sources and types of exposure differ according to the incident, and the victims vary in sex and age. These incidents include arsenic poisoning in milk, soy sauce, and well water, pollution originating from the Toroku Mine on the island of Kyushu, the Matsuo Mine in Shimane Prefecture and Saganoseki Smelter on Kyushu. The type, routes, and dose of exposure as well as major symptoms are given. The clinical signs and symptoms are discussed in relation to the various types of exposure which occurred in these incidents. Dose-response relationships will be considered where data are available. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/561668/
Abstract: In two cases of baker's asthma pulmonary hypersensitivity was found to the fungi Alternaria and Aspergillus. Provocative bronchial challenge revealed a dual response; an immediate and an Arthus type hypersensitivity to Aspergillus in the first case. A primary binding assay revealed high titres of anti-Aspergillus antibody in the serum. In the second case intradermal and bronchial challenge suggested an immediate type I hypersensitivity response to Alternaria. The suspected organisms were present in the room air of the bakeries. It is suggested that an immunological response to these airborne fungi may have contributed to the pathogenesis of baker's asthma. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/561853/
Abstract: Epidemiologic studies were undertaken on the Caspian littoral of Iran to investigate the geographic distribution of factors that might underlie the signal differences in incidence of cancer of the esophagus. In zones of contrasting incidence and sex ratio, information was obtained on food intake, smoking and drinking patterns (including tea), other personal habits, occupation, economic and agricultural practices, and methods of food storage preservation, and preparation. The diet in the highest incidence area was markedly restricted to bread and tea. The poor quality of the diet itself was thought to have a role in the increased risk of developing esophageal cancer. The use of opium and sesame oil, consumption of sheep's milk and yogurt, the chewing of nass (confined to men), and the use of dyes (confined to women) were also more prevalent in the high incidence areas. Typical dietary items were analyzed for the polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons, volatile nitrosamines, aflatoxins, nitrates, and nitrites. The results showed no unusual levels of any of the carcinogens tested or geographic differences. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/561940/
Abstract: The confusing area of cow's milk intolerance is explored in an attempt to define the various mechanisms whereby milk affects gastrointestinal function, resulting in clinical symptoms (diarrhea, vomiting, gastrointestinal bleeding, etc.). The adverse reaction of infants to cow's milk ingestion may relate to lactose intolerance (enzymatic), a direct toxic reaction to the mucosal surface resulting in epithelial damage, or it may be immunologically mediated. Factors such as increased intestinal permeability to milk proteins during the newborn period may also contribute to susceptibility of young infants to milk sensitivity. The relative roles of systemic (milk agglutinins) and local immunity (SIgA antibodies) in milk intolerance are discussed and differential immunologic responses (IgE versus IgA/IgM) considered in the pathogenesis. It was concluded that new techniques such as organ culture of intestinal biopsy specimens are needed to establish the diagnosis of hypersensitivity and to begin to provide ways of adequately treating the condition. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/561965/
Abstract: Male Golden Hamsters drank large amounts of ethanol with food and water freely available, when ethanol was presented in water at concentrations of 10-40% (w/v). Although the hamsters consumed an average of 13.8 g/kg/day of ethanol for 3 months, no withdrawal signs were observed during 4 days without ethanol, nor were withdrawal signs observed during withdrawal after 4 more months of ethanol consumption. Although the Golden Hamster consumes large amounts of ethanol without the need for food or water deprivation, the Golden Hamsters may have limited usefulness as a model of physical dependence. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/562087/
Abstract: Sequential determinations of halothane blood solubility were determined in 8 patients undergoing cardiac surgical procedures with cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB), hypothermia, and crystalloid hemodilution. The mean temperature-corrected blood/gas partition coefficient (B/G) at the end of surgery (2.4) was lower than preceding induction (2.7). The greatest mean B/G (2.9) occurred after induction of anesthesia. The halothane B/G did not increase significantly at the inception of CPB but decreased from a mean 2.7 to 1.6 as the patients were rewarmed. The maximum range of B/G for a single patient was 1.4 to 3.1. For halothane, the increased blood solubility due to hypothermia was initially antagonized by the crystalloid hemodilution. This antagonism would also be anticipated for methoxyflurane, enflurane, and isoflurane. For N2O and diethyl ether, the increased blood solubility due to hypothermia would be unopposed by simultaneous crystalloid hemodilution. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/562179/
Abstract: 1. The efficiency of the urinary hydroxyproline index as an indicator of nutrition status in mass surveys was investigated. The index was determined in 364 children aged under 5 years who participated in the National Nutrition Status Survey of the Republic of Zambia. The results of these biochemical investigations are given for all children and also according to the presence of various tropical parasitic diseases. 2. In rural areas of Zambia the hydroxyproline index was not related to the age of the child during the first 5 years of life. A lower nutritional status as defined by weight-for-age was associated with a lower hydroxyproline index. 3. The main factor affecting the index was the presence of malaria parasites in the blood. Malaria was associated with a lower index in all circumstances investigated, including children with definite growth failure. The mean of the index for healthy children was 2-49. 4. It is concluded that the index is of value in surveys but only in addition to other assessments of nutritional status. In regions where malaria is endemic the index may be of little value in determining nutritional status unless the presence of malaria parasites in the blood is investigated in all subjects and interpretation of the hydroxyproline index where malaria is confirmed is very complex. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/562323/
Abstract: Allopurinol-induced orotaciduria is reduced by dietary ribonucleic acid (RNA), RNA hydrolysate and different nucleotides. These findings are compatible with feedback regulation of pyrimidine biosynthesis by dietary nucleotides. Serum uric acid and urinary uric acid excretion on a purine-free isoenergetic diet reach a minimum after about 10 days and remain constant thereafter. When purines from different biochemical sources are added to such a diet there is always a linear relationship between dietary purines and serum uric acid level and urinary uric acid excretion. The findings suggest that dietary purines play a minor role if any in the regulation of purine biosynthesis in man. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/562241/
Abstract: A reliable, sensitive, reproducible and specific radioimmunoassay for cholecystokinin-pancreozymin (CCK) has been developed, using rabbit antisera to highly purified porcine hormone. The natural occurring variant of CCK (39-CCK), in which the ordinary CCK is lengthened from its N-terminus by a hexapeptide, labelled with 125J, and repurified by column chromatography on Sephadex G-10 and on SP-Sephadex C-25, was used as tracer. Separation from antibody-bound labelled 39-CCK was carried out using a double antibody procedure. Non-specific interference with the assay system was abolished by ethanol extractions. Highly purified porcine CCK was used as standard. No significant crossreaction was found with gastrin, motilin, vasoactive polypeptide (VIP), gastric inhibitory polypeptide (GIP), natural and synthetic secretin, pancreatic glucagon or insulin. The sensitivity of the assay is approximately 40 pg/ml of test solution. The mean immunoreactive CCK concentration in 45 fasting normal subjects was 222 pg/ml increasing after food ingestion to 480 pg/ml. Somatostatin was able to abolish the stimulated CCK release. Elevated CCK concentrations were found in chronic pancreatitis. Immunohistochemical identification of pancreozymin cells was carried out either in surgical samples or in biopsy material. Approximately 1650 CCK cells per cross-section in the duodenum of humans have been found. The CCK cells usually appeared elongated, oval or pyramidal in shape and were observed to reach the lumen with their apical cell pole. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/562249/
Abstract: We have examined the effects of acute and chronic ethanol treatment and of ethanol withdrawal on dopamine synthesis in rat striatal synaptosomes in vitro. Our studies showed that acute exposure to ethanol produces a dose-related decrease in dopamine synthesis in synaptosomes. This effect of acute ethanol treatment is time-dependent, since there is an initial stimulation of dopamine synthesis, which then is followed by a depression of synthesis. Chronic exposure to ethanol in the form of a liquid diet for 2 weeks does not alter dopamine synthesis in striatal synaptosomes. After withdrawal from ethanol, dopamine synthesis in striatal synaptosomes is decreased. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/562212/
Abstract: Sex Hormone Binding Globulin (SHBG) was measured in 130 patients with carcinoma of the prostate. Its level is raised in patients treated with oestrogen and it is possible that this may be of prognostic significance. The possible relevance of SHBG in oestrogen-treated patients is discussed. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/562443/
Abstract: In the last years work done in the field of child nutrition has shown the great advantage of breast-feeding as to artificial feeding. Therefore it is necessary to seek new ways to promote this type of feeding which is continuously falling. It could be shown that by an intensive health education in the public, in the obstetric clinics, and in the family, the disposition of the mothers to breast-feed can be raised even nowadays by convincing them of its value. This aim will be best supported by intensive teaching in the neonatal clinics of breast-feeding and of application of the system "ad libitum", in the clinic and even more after returning home. At home this system of nutrition is important for the maintenance of breastfeeding in the first weeks and even longer. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/562378/
Abstract: Although the healthy infant can tolerate the range of sodium intakes normally present in the variety of diets offered in Britain without developing hypernatraemia or evidence of serious disease, there is enough evidence to suggest that care is required in the amount of sodium given to babies. The consequence of excessive sodium intake may be short term or long term. The most common short term complication is hypertonic dehydration. In the long term, the fear is that high intakes of sodium in early infancy may predispose to hypertension in later life, though this is as yet unproven. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/562448/
Abstract: Case report on a 14 months old infant who swallowed a glas splinter while being fed from a jar with commercially prepared strained baby food (fruits). A perforating laceration in the upper posterior wall of the esophagus gave rise to a purulent inflammation of the paraesophageal tissue within 24 hours requiring incision and drainage. The suspected splinter was not found, neither by two esophagoscopies nor by the incision. Therefore the stools were collected for six days and carefully screened with a special technique. Thus a tiny curved glas splinter was detected fitting exactly into a corresponding defect of the upper inner rim of the used jar. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/562488/
Abstract: Pathways of ethanol transformation and its respective metabolic disorders in the cell have been considered. One should note the role of acetaldehyde in the ethanol toxic effect. Acetaldehyde produces a significant effect upon the metabolism of biogenic amines in brain tissue. Chronic alcohol intoxication at a certain stage is connected with a considerable reduction in the ratio of alcohol dehydrogenase:acetaldehyde dehydrogenase (this ratio determines the severity of clinical signs in intoxication). The inhibition of acetaldehyde dehydrogenase activity is an enzymological base of hallucinations and delirium tremens. The importance of the protective role of nutrition at chronic alcohol intoxication is shown. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/562564/
Abstract: The influence of enhanced intensity of general illumination on conditioned reactions of a different degree of complexity was studied on dogs by the classical method of secretory conditioned reflexes. In most of the dogs, increase of general illumination from 30 to 300 luxes leads to more intensive secretory conditioned and unconditioned reactions, a smaller number of errors in differentiation, and stabilization of parameters of conditioned activity, which testifies to the improved general functional state of the brain. In two animals in the same conditions of the experiment, an experimental neurosis set it, not connected with the complexity of the elaborated activity. It is assumed that the neurotizing agent was the superfluous situational (photic) stimulation which presented excessive requirements to the mechanisms regulating the general functional state of the brain. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/562587/
Abstract: Lactose and protein absorption from breast milk and a cow's milk preparation enriched up to 7% of lactose were studied in two infants with an artificial anus applied in the ascending colon region. The concentrations of protein, lactose, glucose and galactose were measured in the fistula stools. In addition, the stools were analysed microbiologically. There were relatively high concentrations of lactose and its decomposition products and low concentrations of protein and aminonitrogen in the fistula stools when breast milk was fed. When the cow's milk formula was applied, only traces of lactose but high amounts of protein were measured. The microbiological findings are in agreement with the hypothesis that the bacterial flora of the large intestine is influenced by the lactose and protein concentrations in the intestinal content which reach the large intestine. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/562590/
Abstract: To evaluate changes inbone composition during treatment with corticosteroids, the bone mineral content (BMC, measured by photon absorptiometry) and the degree of bone mineralization (measured as the bone phosphorus/hydroxyproline ratio) were determined in 18 patients during prednisone treatment for haematological and connective tissue diseases. The prednisone dose ranged from 12 to 51 mg/day (mean 27). The BMC decreased significantly (mean 2.5%) during the studied 12 weeks of treatment, but the change did not correlate significantly to the prednisone dose. The degree of bone mineralization remained unchanged, indicating equal losses of mineral and of collagen in bone during prednisone treatment. The changes correspond to a rapidly developing oesteoporotic state. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/562599/
Abstract: Male rats, provided with dissimilar diets with regard to thiamine (deficient, normal and superfluous) received either water or alcohol (7-20%: w/v) as the only supply of liquid for 4-7 months. Mitotic acitivity was very low in the spermatogonia of many of the individuals especially those belonging to the alcohol groups. The frequency of cells with visible chromosomal defects was invariably quite low. It seems that combining abnormal thiamine supply with alcoholism does not lead to a drastic increase in the frequency of chromosomal aberrations. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/572577/
Abstract: Guinea pigs were induced chronic alcoholism with a liquid diet containing 5% (w/v) ethanol. There was no apparent change in acyl group composition in the myelin lipids; however, acyl group changes were observed in the phosphoglycerides of synaptic plasma membranes (SPM). In general, acyl group changes are related to a decrease in the proportion of monoenes in both choline and ethanolamine phosphoglycerides and an increase in polyenes (15%) in the ethanolamine phosphoglycerides. The changes observed may be associated to the increased membrane-dependent transport activities observed after chronic ethanol treatment. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/572663/
Abstract: Soybean world production has been increasing at a rate of 5.2% per year (average yield is around 1,400 kg/ha). This production has been solely used for oil extraction and the protein meal obtained for animal rations, but lately it is being used for human consumption. Brazil, the third largest producer, has had a yearly rate of production increase of 32% in the last years. Average yields in Brazil are still low (around 1,500 kg/ha), but in experimental results, yields over 3,000 kg/ha have been obtained. Some problems needstill to be solved, such as obtention of adapted varieties, soil fertility, adequate agronomic practices, damage by insects and diseases. Protein and oil contents are highly negative correlated, they are genetically controlled and can also be influenced by environmental conditions and agronomic practices. To breed for high protein (above 48%) enhances a decrease in oil and yield, but new varieties containing 43% protein and with a good yielding capacity have been developed lately. Methionine content varies from 1.0 to 1.6% g/16g N; there is a correlation of 0.56 to 0.58 between methionine in the protein and protein in the seed. Particular attention has been given to toxic factors such as trypsin inhibitors, whose action is related to the availability or utilization of methionine; this effect, however, can be eliminated by heat. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/572660/
Abstract: Scombroid fish poisoning, one of the most common adverse reactions to fish, is also probably one of the most common causes of a flushing syndrome. The reaction usually involves fishes of the Scombridae family but, in Hawaii, the reaction is most often due to mahimahi (Coryphaena hippurus). Onset of the reaction is usually abrupt and commonly associated with a prominent flush resembling a sunburn. Headache, tachye to a toxin with histamine-like properties, which is formed because improper refrigeration enables endogenous bacteria to decarboxylate histidine normally present in dark-meat fishes. Symptoms are usually promptly relieved by parenteral antihistamine therapy. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/572868/
Abstract: Sixty infants with acquired carbohydrate intolerance, 19 with protracted diarrhea, and 41 with features indistinguishable from acute infectious enteritis, were maintained on a lactose-free and cow milk protein-free formula for about eight weeks, after which jejunal biopsies were performed before and after oral provocation with cow milk protein. Following provocation, 43 infants showed mucocal abnormalities associated with marked reduction in the levels of all three disaccharidases. In one infant, mucosal change was unaccompanied by enzyme depletion. Six infants had enzyme depletion without visible mucosal changes. In ten infants the intestinal mucosa remained normal and there was no consistent pattern of change in the enzyme levels. The findings suggest that cow milk protein has a deleterious effect on the small bowel mucosa of young infants recovering from enteritis and may be an important contributing cause of acquired carbohydrate intolerance in these infants. In the management of young infants with acquired carbohydrate intolerance both the offending sugar and protein should be excluded. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/572802/
Abstract: The mean small intestinal intraepithelial lymphocyte count in seven children with untreated cow's milk protein intolerance (CMPI) on a milk-containing diet was significantly higher than 22 control children also having a milk-containing diet. Ten milk-intolerant children on a milk-free diet had a mean intraepithelial lymphocyte count which was significantly lower than the level in the 22 control children on a milk-containing diet. When these 10 children were challenged with cow's milk they relapsed clinically, and in every case the intraepithelial lymphocyte count rose, although it remained within normal limits. Nineteen children on milk-free diets who had recovered from CMPI had a mean lymphocyte count which was also significantly lower than controls on normal diets, suggesting that when milk is remo-ed from the diet the lymphocyte count is low regardless of whether the child is milk sensitive or not. The reaction of intraepithelial lymphocytes to milk in CMPI is markedly different from their response to gluten in coeliac disease. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/572686/
Abstract: The research that was carried out with comparative groups showed the influence of the work done by a coordinated health group on the prolonged natural lactation. This experience has proved the evident reduction of percentages of malnutrition and diarrhoea in children under 6 months of age. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/572863/
Abstract: In Experiment 1, rats living in chambers containing bedding material were injected with a toxicosis-producing dose of lithium chloride shortly after their initial taste of sweetened condensed milk. They consumed no additional milk and used the bedding to bury the spout through which the milk had been delivered, although they did not bury a concurrently available water spout. In another control condition, rats did not bury a spout containing a novel solution (saccharin) not paired with toxicosis. In Experiment 2, rats did not bury a milk spout until milk consumption was followed by toxicosis. In Experiment 3, rats buried a spout containing Tabasco pepper sauce but not a concurrently available water spout. Thus, burying the food source appears to be an integral component of the rat's defensive reaction to noxious food. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/572722/
Abstract: In the course of study of the influence of varying the amount of refined carbohydrate (sugar and sugar products) in an otherwise standardised diet in 18 normal subjects it was evident that the analysis of 24-h urine collections failed to show the profound diurnal variation in urinary electrolyte excretion and, in particular in this instance, calcium excretion. The analysis of individually voided specimens showed some normal subjects to have spontaneously high peaks of urinary calcium concentration throughout the day even whilst on a diet with low refined carbohydrate content. Increase in the refined carbohydrate content of the otherwise standardised diet caused significant increase in the number of urines with a calcium concentration above 9 mmol/1. Refined carbohydrate, a common cinstituent in Western diets, can therefore influence urinary electrolyte excretion in such a way that there may be an increased risk of over-saturation with calcium oxalate. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/572990/
Abstract: The principal reactions described in Guthrie and Horton's classic learning monograph appear to have been caused by the mere presence of the experimenters. Neither escape nor food reinforcement is necessary for the establishment of such responses. They are species-typical "greeting" reactions, readily elicited by the sight of human observers. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/572996/
Abstract: A soy-based infant feed was compared with a humanized cow's milk product in newborn preterm babies. Forty preterm infants appropriate for gestational age with birth weights of between 1,500 and 1,800 g were randomly allocated, as they were admitted, to either a soy feed or a humanized cow's milk formula--both commercial products. The trial lasted 35 days for each patient. With a formula intake of 180 ml/kg/day, the patients on the soy feed did not progress well, and most had to be withdrawn from the trial, whereas the group fed on cow's milk fared satisfactorily. With formula intakes of 200 ml/kg/d, progress in the group on the soy feed was improved. However, the body weights and serum albumin levels of the babies receiving the soy product were significantly lower than those of babies on the cow's milk formula at the end of the trial. Until more work has been done, we suggest that soy formulas should be employed with caution in the feeding of small preterm infants. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/573061/
Abstract: The effect of dietary protein content on the diurnal variations in plasma neutral amino acid levels was studied in normal human subjects. For three consecutive 5-day periods, subjects consumed diets containing 0, 75, or 150 g of egg protein per day. Blood samples were drawn at 4-hr intervals on the 4th and 5th days of each period. Consumption of the protein-free diet caused plasma concentrations of all amino acids studied to fall in the late morning and afternoon, while the 150-g protein diet elicited increases in these levels during the daytime. Ingestion of the diet containing 75 g of egg protein tended to diminish the amplitudes of the daily rhythms in plasma amino acid levels, but most amino acids still exhibited small but significant elevations late in the evening. At all times of day, plasma concentrations of the large neutral amino acids studied (i.e., aromatic and branched-chain amino acids, and methionine) varied directly with the protein content of the diet. In contrast, the relationships between dietary protein content and the plasma concentrations of glycine and alanine, two small neutral amino acids, were inverse. The ratios of plasma tryptophan, tyrosine, and phenylalanine levels to the sum of the concentrations of other large neutral amino acids tended to fall as the protein content of the diet was increased. The corresponding ratio for valine increased as protein was added to the diet, while the leucine and isoleucine ratios were not correlated with dietary protein content. Since diet-induced changes in plasma trypotphan and tyrosine ratios in animals are known to cause parallel alterations in brain tryptophan and tyrosine levels, and thus in the rates of brain serotonin and catecholamine synthesis, our data suggest that ingestion of carbohydrates and protein may also normally affected brain monoamine synthesis in humans. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/573100/
Abstract: Coeliac disease occurred at the same age in MZ twins. The diagnosis was confirmed by histology of the small intestine, rapid response to a gluten-free diet, and relapse after reintroduction of gluten. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/573062/
Abstract: The effect of varying dietary protein content on the daily rhythms in plasma neutral amino acid concentrations was studied in patients with chronic cirrhosis. For two consecutive 5-day periods, subjects consumed diets containing either 0 or 75 g of protein per day. Blood samples were drawn at 4-hr intervals on the 4th and 5th days of each dietary period. For most of the neutral amino acids, the changes in plasma concentration associated with time of day or with variations in dietary protein content were similar to those observed previously in normal subjects. Ingestion of the protein-free diet caused significant reductions in the daytime level of all amino acids studied, except for tryptophan, the concentration of which did not change during the 24-hr period. Ingestion of the 75-g protein diet caused plasma levels of most of theamino acids to increase slightly during the day; these increments were not statistically significant for tryptophan, tyrosine, leucine, and methionine. The absolute plasma concentrations of most of the neutral amino acids were also in the normal range; exceptions included methonine, tyrosine, and phenylalanine, whose plasma levels were significantly elevated above normal valves. The plasma ratios of tryptophan, tyrosine, and phenylalanine concentrations to the sum of the concentrations of other large neutral amino acids increased during the day uhen the protein-free diet was ingested; this effect was moderated by the addition of protein to the food. The plasma ratios for the branched-chain amino acids were depressed below normal; those for tyrosine, phenylalanine, and methionine were significantly increased. The plasma tryptophan ratio was within the normal range. These findings provide a basis for anticipating that the uptake from blood into brain of several of the large neutral amino acids may be modified in patients with chronic cirrhosis. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/573140/
Abstract: Rabbits were fed a low cholesterol diet containing 2% plant sterols for 10 weeks to determine the absorbability of these sterols and their deposition in the tissues. We found campesterol and beta-sitosterol in the blood and tissues. The plasma campesterol levels were 4.34--13.3 mg/100 ml, whereas, beta-sitosterol levels were 0.41--1 mg/100 ml. Stigmasterol was not detected. The total plasma plant sterol concentration was about 10% of the total plasma sterol. The mean terminal plasma cholesterol concentration averaged 60% higher (55 vs. 88 mg/100 ml, P less than 0.001) than the mean initial value. Campesterol was the preponderant sterol in all tissues studied, including the aorta. Sitosterol was found in small amounts in the tissues of the abdominal organs. Stigmasterol was not detected in any tissue studied. Esterified campesterol and sitosterol were detected in trace amounts in most tissues. Campesterol and sitosterol, particularly the former, accumulated in the tissues including the aorta. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/573189/
Abstract: 1. Studies were carried out on six normal male subjects to determine the short-term effect of increasing the dietary consumption of animal protein on the urinary risk factors for stone-formation, namely, volume, pH, calcium oxalate, uric acid and glycosaminoglycans. 2. An increase of 34 g/day of animal protein in the diet significantly increased urinary calcium (23%) and oxalate (24%). Total urinary nitrogen increased by an average of 368 mmol/day. The accompanying increase in dietary purine (11 mmol of purine nitrogen/day) caused a 48% increase in the excretion of uric acid. 3. The overall relative probability of forming stones, calculated from a combination of the risk factors, was markedly increased (250%) throughout the period of high animal protein ingestion. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/573287/
Abstract: It has previously been demonstrated that rats recovered from aphagia and adipsia after large bilateral electrolytic lesions of the lateral hypothalamic area do not show the normal feeding response to 2-deoxyglucose or drinking response to polyethylene glyol. The present work reveals that such homeostatic imbalances reinstate the profound sensorimotor impairments that are seen in the immediate postoperative period but abate in parallel with the gradual recovery of ingestive behaviors. Administration of alpha-methyltyrosine or spiroperidol produced sensory and motor dysfunctions in rats with lateral hypothalamic lesions that were similar to those observed after 2-deoxyglucose. These results suggest that the residual feeding and drinking deficits of rats with lateral hypothalamic lesions after apparent recovery of function do not reflect specific loss of putative gluco- and volume-regulatory contributions to ingestive behavior. Instead, they may indicate continued impairments in nonspecific activational components of motivation that normally are mediated, in part, by central dopaminergic neurons. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/615553/
Abstract: Innovative health and nutrition messages arising from and by rural groups in developing countries, can contribute to their improved nutritional status. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/615588/
Abstract: A pilot study has been conducted in 227 students in a primary school stiuated in the Dacca city. The study indicates that the height, weight of urban children has become a little improved since the Nutrition Survey of East Pakistan was done in 1962-64. A high percentage of enlarged tonsil and caries teeth were observed in the study group. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/615469/
Abstract: In a group of 26 child patients with coeliac sprue verified by clinical tests and biopsy, we observed a significant change in the proportion of the intestinal alkaline phosphatase isoenzyme in the serum in correlation to a gluten-free therapeutic diet. In untreated patients, in the active phase of the disease, intestinal AP isoenzyme activity rises in the serum and falls in the intestinal mucosa. In our experience, the change in activity is reversible within 3--5 days of instituting adequate treatment, i.e. a gluten-free diet. No such activity changes were observed in children with other forms of malabsorption syndrome (hepatogenic, pancreatogenic) or in the children in the control group. This test was found to be a suitable and sensitive method for indirect determination of the response of the intestinal mucosa to treatment in children with coeliac sprue. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/615731/
Abstract: Four subjects were given test meals containing various concentrations of hydrochlorides of glycine, alanine, arginine, phenylalanine and tryptophan. The gastric contents were recovered after 20 min. The volume of the original meal recovered was assessed from the amount of marker substance aspirated. It was found that the slowing of gastric emptying of amino acid hydrochlorides was consistent with their action as weak acids. However, tryptophan and phenylalanine were slightly more effective than was predicted on the basis of their actions as acids. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/615479/
Abstract: Screening tests of tyrosine levels in the newborn population showed that an elevated blood tyrosine level is the second commonest, and diagnostically the most serious, problem of neonatal age. Almost 1% of all newborn infants have a raised tyrosine level. The classic form of tyrosinosis and secondary hypertyrosinaemia in particular must be differentiated from benign, transitory forms. Methods for a differential diagnosis after loading the organism with ascorbic acid, pyridoxine or folic acid have been described. L-tyrosine tolerance tests proved ineffective. The results of the dietary treatment of transitory and classic forms of hypertyrosinaemia, using phenylalanine- and tyrosine-free hydrolysates, are described. The incidence of these diseases at different ages is shown in a table. Study of psychomotric development shows that untreated children do not display a subnormal IQ until they are of pre-school or school age. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/615574/
Abstract: Biochemical investigations on iron deficiency and nutritional status were carried out in a group of 130 women in the second or third trimesters of pregnancy and in 42 control non-pregnant women. The important findings were: 1. Anaemia was present in 46.1% of pregnant women in comparison with 19% in non-pregnant women. It was found to be more prevalent in the third trimester of pregnancy. 2. Iron deficiency with and without anaemia, as judged from serum transferrin saturation (%) was evident in 59.2% of pregnant women with an incidence of 70.3% in the third trimester of pregnancy. 3. Serum albumin, gamma globulin and A/G ratio were found to be decreased in pregnancy whereas serum levels of alpha-2 and beta globulins were elevated. The results have been discussed. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/615558/
Abstract: The main objective of this work is to determine what anthropometric method to use under field conditions, given the kind of mainutrition to be detected. In the first part of the work some criteria and procedures are given by which to compare the field perfomance characteristics (i.e. transportability, facility of use, etc.), of the most commonly used instruments. Then we extrapolate these characteristics to the respective methods like weight for age, weight for height, height for age, etc. In the second part we present a correlation matrix among the various methods and analyze it in order to associate with each method a specific typology of malnutrition. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/615594/
Abstract: The liver reserve of vitamin A, iron and folate from 30 congenitally malformed babies dying in the perinatal period is reported, and compared with published data for babies without malformations. No statistically significant difference have been found between the two groups. The implications are discussed. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/615557/
Abstract: The opinions on the performance characteristics of the mid arm circumference as anthropometric measurement for malnutrition screening are quite contradictory. In this paper we analyze the specificity and sensitivity of the arm tape under different conditions and conclude that the design of the tape characteristics should aim at an instrument which can satisfy specific needs instead of a general purpose one. We also give some measurements for the practical design of the instrument. 1. This investigation has been carried out under the Contract AID/ta-C-1121 and the Fundacin para la Educacin Superior. 2. Universidad del Valle. 3. Fundacin para la Educacin Superior. 4. Community Systems Foundation. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/615714/
Abstract: Two groups of patients with folic acid responsive neurological and psychiatric disorders are reported. The first group (7 patients) had well-established acquired folate deficiency due either to defective absorption (4 cases with atrophy of jejunal mucosa) or to a deficient diet (3 cases). One patient had a subacute combined degeneration of the spinal cord while others were depressed and had weight loss, permanent muscular and intellectual fatigue, restless legs syndrome, depressed ankle jerks, diminution of the sense of vibration in the knees and a stocking-type tactile hypoesthesia. The second group (9 patients) comprised idiopathic cases of folic acid deficiency. Their main subjective complaints were chronic fatigability and familial restless legs syndrome. The neurological findings were similar to those of the patients with acquired disorders. Neuropsychological testing procedures revealed an abnormal intellectual functioning in all 16 patients. Abnormal patterns of radionuclide cisternograms and computerized transaxial tomography (CTT) were found in 11 patients. After 6-12 months of folic acid therapy a striking improvement regarding their intellectual functioning was noticed: the IQ, Kohs Block Design and Category tests were significantly improved. The correlation of neuropsychological findings with CTT and radionuclide cisternograms led to the conclusion that chronic folate deficiency could induce cerebral atrophy. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/615739/
Abstract: 13 patients with chronic inflammatory bowel disease were treated with an elemental diet (Vivasorb). Intestinal protein exudation was studied during the treatment by means of of 131I-albumin. 131I-albumin studies showed no significant change of albumin degradation and, by inference, of intestinal protein loss in the group as a whole. A high initial albumin degradation rate augured treatment with elemental diet and prednisone to be unsuccessful. It is concluded that measurement of intestinal protein leakage is of no predictive value as regards the effect of treatment of chronic inflammatory bowel disease with elemental diet. Apparently, diminishing protein exudation is a late phenomenon during a course of clinical remission. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/615796/
Abstract: The clinical and roentgenographic findings in five patients with small intestinal obstruction caused by food impaction are presented. None had undergone previous gastric surgery. While the clinical features are those of small intestinal obstruction, an upper gastrointestinal study may demonstrate the exact site and nature of the obstruction. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/615901/
Abstract: Almost all (93 per cent of 150) of the physicians surveyed reported frequent exposure to mass media, and almost two-thirds (60 per cent) state that this exposure included health items. Over half replied that at least one mass media source was useful to them as a source of health information. And, one physician in five (21 per cent) indicated that mass media could influence his attitude about health. The success of the dietitian in the health care setting depends to a large extent on the physician's support. In view of the influence of the mass media on physicians, as reported in this survey, the recommendation is made that dietitians give more attention to this avenue of improving their image with the medical profession. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/615899/
Abstract: The Recommended Dietary Allowances serve two basic uses: As guidelines for planning diets and food supplies and as a tool for evaluating nutritional adequacy of food consumed. Establishing standards to serve these functions is not simple. Differences in individuals in different population groups dictate allowances with relatively high margins of safety to prevent deficiencies. Even so, anomalies arise. Surveys have shown that intakes of vitamin A and protein are likely to exceed their respective allowances. On the other hand, calcium and thiamin intakes of older women and iron in teenage boys and women in the reproductive years are difficult to meet in terms of nutrient density ratios. In addition, insufficient data make it impossible to set allowances for some essential trace elements--and, other essential elements may yet be discovered. Thus the allowances are not guaranteed to represent the totality of nutritional needs. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/616044/
Abstract: Ultrafiltration of plasma was shown to be a simple and rapid method to obtain a stable sample for direct measurement of free choline (Ch) in plasma by a radioenzymatic procedure. Free Ch was analysed in plasma from healthy volunteers fasted 12-15 h and 1 h after a meal. The free Ch concentration was found within narrow limits with a mean of 10.6 +/- 0.4 mumol/l in the fasted subjects and 11.5 +/- 0.3 mumol/l 1 h after a meal. The difference is significant (paired t test, P less than 0.01, n = 23). Dietary influence on the free Ch concentration in human plasma is suggested. In three newborn infants (1-3 min post partum) the Ch concentration in plasma from the umbilical vein was 24.5 +/- 1.9 mumol/l. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/616217/
Abstract: In connection with a survey of child nutrition in Finland the haemoglobin and heamatocrit values in childhood and the prevalence of anaemia were studied. The series consisted of 1534 children aged 5, 9 and 13 years. The haemoglobin concentrations in those age groups were 12.60 +/- 0.81, 13.24 +/- 0.77 and 13.64 +/- 0.77 and 13.64 +/- 0.90 g/100 ml, respectively. The haematocrit values were 38.0 +/- 2.53, 39.6 +/- 2.50 and 40.8 +/- 3.00%. In the total series, 3.0% of the Hb values and 4.8% of the PCV values were below the WHO norms. No difference was found between anaemic and non-anaemic children with respect to the mean daily intake of dietary iron or the intake of iron from the food group eggs, meat and fish in absolute amounts or per 1000 kcal. Anaemic 5-year-old children, however, obtained from this food group a significantly smaller percentage of their total dietary iron than the non-anaemic children of the same age. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/616534/
Abstract: This paper justifies the consideration of epilepsy as a social problem and an important public health problem in Latinamerica. It comments on the lack of proper statistical studies and the particular composition of the Latinamerican population where epilepsy has no clear differences according to age, in reference to mortality. It considers the labor structure of the population with low income and exposed to morbility and malnutrition for different causes, making notice that the social problems of epilepsy are by and large going along with the economic deficits and the unequal social system. The article mentions the problem of neonatal anoxia and other perinatal hazards so much influenced by poor hygiene and ignorance, going along with other poorly understood or non existing hygienic prevention problems. Among other points it touches on human and material resources in relation to epilepsy. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/616483/
Abstract: Elucidation of the mechanism of facilitated D-glucose transport in human erythrocytes is dependent on the identification and isolation of the membrane protein(s) mediating this process. Based on the fact that stereospecific D-glucose transport is reconstituted in liposomes prepared by sonication of a lipid suspension with ghosts or fractions derived from ghosts, a quantitative assay for the stereospecific D-glucose transport activity of these fractions was developed (Zala CA, Kahlenberg A: Biochem Biophys Res Commun 72:866, 1976). This assay was used to monitor the purification of ghosts. The solubilized membrane protein fraction was chromatographed on a column of diethylaminoethyl cellulose which was eluted stepwise with NaCl-phosphate buffers of increasing ionic strength. A fraction, eluted at an ionic strength of 0.1, displayed a 13- and 27-fold increase in reconstituted transport activity relative to ghosts and to the unfractionated Triton X-100 extract, respectively. This fraction, when analyzed by sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis, consisted predominantly of the ghost proteins with an apparent molecular weight of 55,000, commonly designated as zone 4.5; periodic acid-Schiff-sensitive membrane glycoproteins 1-4 were absent. Transport reconstituted by this preparation of zone 4.5 membrane proteins was almost completely abolished by 1-fluoro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, mercuric chloride, and p-chloromercuribenzene sulfonate, but was unaffected by sodium iodoacetate. Extra- and intraliposomal phloretin and cytochalasin B, respectively, exhibited partial inhibition. The stereospecificity and inhibition characteristics of the reconstituted transport imply that all the components of the erythrocyte D-glucose transport system are contained in the zone 4.5 membrane protein preparation. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/630128/
Abstract: The cerebrovascular system (the extra- as well as intracerebral vessels) receives a well-developed innervation by the adrenergic (originating in the superior cervical sympathetic ganglia) and cholinergic nerves. In addition, recent immunohistochemical studies have shown the presence of vasodilatory peptidergic nerve fibres. There may be an association of cerebral blood vessels also with various aminergic nerve systems of intracerebral origin. Besides the nerves, amine-containing mast cells are often located in close relation to the brain vessels. The specific receptors mediating the contractile and dilatory response of the various vasoactive amines--noradrenaline, dopamine, 5-hydroxytryptamine, histamine, acetylcholine--have been characterized in detail in pharmacological experiments. There is a number of major differences in the reactivity of cerebral vessels as compared to vasomotor functions in the peripheral circulation. The observations and results provide a basis for a better understanding of physiological neurogenic control mechanisms in the cerebral circulation, and they may also have implications for the interpretation of pathophysiological phenomena related to, for example, migraine and the vasospasm following subarachnoid hemorrhage. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/630212/
Abstract: Out of 314 patients with coeliac disease, 63 had associated disorders of known or suspected immunological cause (excluding aphthous stomatitis and dermatitis herpetiformis). Autoimmune diseases appeared to occur more often in patients with coeliac disease than in the normal population, 52 such diseases being found in 45 patients. Of individual disorders, diabetes mellitus, thyroid diseases, and ulcerative colitis seemed to be more common than expected. Atopy (asthma and eczema) occurred in 7% of the patients. Most of these immunological disorders developed when the patients were on normal diet. A gluten-free diet and virtually normal jejunum did not prevent their development, and the diet had little ameliorating effect on their course apart from an occasional dramatic improvement in atopic patients. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/630253/
Abstract: The relative importance of dietary and familial factors in determining weight in early infancy were studied in 203 5-year-old children. Their age at weaning, energy intake in infancy and at 5 years, and maternal percentage expected weight were studied in relation to their percentage expected weight. Neither the estimated energy intake in infancy nor the intake at 5 years correlated significantly with their percentage expected weight at 5 years. Overweight 5-year-olds had not been weaned earlier than normal-weight 5-year-olds. There was a significant correlation between the percentage expected weights of the mothers and those of their children at 5 years of age, although the children of overweight mothers did not have higher energy intakes than the children of underweight mothers. A familial, perhaps genetically determined, tendency to overweight seems to be more important in determining whether a child will be overweight at 5 years old than early weaning and overfeeding in infancy. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/629928/
Abstract: Fat-free body mass is an important component of body composition which is of particular interest to nutritionists and related workers. Fat-free mass has been determined from the simple measurement of skinfold thickness and it has been demonstrated that there is a close correlation with total body nitrogen even though the test subjects had a wide range of nutritional status. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/629924/
Abstract: 1. A prospective randomized study of two dietary regimens has been started in newly-diagnosed diabetics to determine their effect on circulating metabolites and on diabetic complications. 2. During the first year of treatment the fasting plasma glucose concentrations on both the low-carbohydrate diet and the high-carbohydrate, modified-fat (MF) diet showed a similar decrease. 3. Plasma cholesterol showed a sustained decrease only in patients recommended a MF diet. Transient changes in plasma triglyceride concentrations occurred in patients on both dietary regimens. 4. Increased plasma cholesterol levels are associated with atheromatous disease which is common in diabetics in Europe and North America. A MF diet may therefore have an advantage in that it lowers the plasma cholesterol as well as being effective in lowering the plasma glucose. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/630213/
Abstract: The diets of 36 children below the third centile for height but with no organic disease were compared with the diets of a control group. In most cases retarded growth was associated with a long-continued deficiency in calorie intake. When the diets were reassessed about a year later the shortfall in calorie intake was significantly reduced. This improvement, which tended to be followed by an increase in the rate of growth in height, might have been due to alteration in the child's circumstances or improvement in the family attitudes and feeding habits or both. Advice given at the clinic is thought to have played a part in bringing these changes about. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/630129/
Abstract: Plasmatic arterionecrosis, the causative lesion of hypertensive cerebral hemorrhage, follows upon medial muscle cell necrosis. The development of medial muscle cell necrosis, the earliest cerebral arterial change seen in hypertensive rats, was inhibited when these animals were fed a cholesterol and lard-supplemented diet. Insudation of fibrin was noted in the arterial intima of hypertensive rats with bilaterally constricted renal arteries. Removal of the constriction induced a fall in the elevated blood pressure and an increase of intimal muscle cells. These were responsible for the dissolution of the deposited fibrin, leading to arteriosclerosis. These myointimal cells may originate from the endothelium. Arterial contraction caused by methoxamine hydrochloride often induced the intrusion of one medial muscle cell into another and increased endothelial permeability. 12-24 h after contraction, the arterial segments showed medial muscle cell necrosis, endothelial desquamation with platelet adhesion, and blood plasma infiltration. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/630325/
Abstract: Glycosylated haemoglobins AIa+Ib and AIc were measured serially in 10 consecutive cases of newly discovered non-acidotic diabetes before and after diet and insulin treatment. The average concentration of Hb AIc was 11.4% in untreated diabetics as compared with 4.3% in healthy controls. With prolonged optimal regulation of blood glucose Hb AIc slowly decreased to a mean concentration of 5.5%. The concentration of Hb AIc was significantly correlated with the fasting blood sugar value. The findings suggest that determining Hb AIc may give valuable information on the regulation of carbohydrate metabolism in the preceding one to two months and thus become an important aid to management. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/630710/
Abstract: Lactate dehydrogenase (LD) isoenzymes 1 and 2 in human serum were separated on a column of diethylaminoethyl-Sephadex. Samples layered on mini-columns were eluted with buffered sodium chloride (100, 150, and 200 mmol/liter). Lactate dehydrogenase activity in column effluents was measured by the Wacker method, and their isoenzyme content was evaluated by electrophoresis on polyacrylamide gel. Results for column-fractionated LD-1 and LD-2 were expressed in two ways: LD-1/LD-2 ratios and total LD-1 + LD-2 activities. The former is a more specific indicator of myocardial infarction than the latter. Sera from 10 patients with acute myocardial infarction (increased creatine kinease isoenzyme MB activity) exhibited ratios in the range of 0.92 to 1.56, ratios for 10 patients without heart disease (normal creatine kinase MB) ranged from 0.33 to 0.69. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/630496/
Abstract: A survey of factors associated with perinatal mortality in 511 twins and fetal growth retardation and its reversal in 262 twins is presented. The incidence of stillbirth was almost 50% higher in twins than in singletons and the neonatal mortality was six times as high. Eighty percent of the neonatal deaths occurred in infants born prior to or at 30 weeks of gestation; 93% of the deaths were in infants weighing less than 1500 g and 75% occurred within 48 hours of birth. Fetal malnutrition was the main cause of stillbirth, and respiratory distress syndrome and asphyxia neonatorum were the main causes of neonatal death. One quarter of the twins had fetal growth retardation, a prevalence 10 times that in singletons. In almost all, the growth retardation was reversed by high-energy feedings. Although twins represented only 1% of all pregnancies and 2% of live births, they composed 12% of infants with early neonatal death and 17% of growth-retarded infants. A program is suggested for reduction of twin mortality and morbidity. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/630743/
Abstract: In patients with chronic renal failure the administration of a diet providing 20 g protein per day for five weeks caused a significant rise in the serum ceruloplasmin level. A low dietary copper content (0.8 mg/day) may have been the limiting factor for any further rise of the ceruloplasmin level. The rise of ceruloplasmin was associated with a continuous decline of total iron binding capacity. The temporarily raised serum iron levels and the continuous decline of unsaturated iron binding capacity suggested enhanced iron mobilization caused by the raised ceruloplasmin level. The rise of ceruloplasmin correlated with the decline of UIBC. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/630792/
Abstract: Eight healthy volunteers were sequentially fed a control diet, a charcoal-broiled beef--containing diet, and the control diet a second time. The mean plasma half-lives (t1/2) of antipyrine and theophylline were each decreased by 22% after the subjects were fed the charcoal-broiled beed--containing diet. The main plasma t1/2s for these drugs returned to control values when the subjects were fed the control diet for a second time. Considerable individuality occurred in the responsiveness of the subjects to the charcoal-broiled beef--containing diet. The decreases in antipyrine plasma t1/2s among the 8 subjects ranged from 5% to 39%, and the decreases in theophylling t1/2s ranged from 0% to 42%. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/630804/
Abstract: 1. The possible roles of the diet and of intestinal absorption in the increased excretion of oxalate by patients with renal calcium stones have been studied. 2. Dietary surveys showed that the mean daily intake of oxalic acid by stone-formers was not significantly different from that of non-stone-formers. 3. The mean urinary excretion of oxalate, expressed as an oxalate/creatinine molar ratio, was significantly reduced by fasting, the change being more marked in the stone-formers than in the normal subjects. Moreover, fasting abolished the difference in mean oxalate/creatinine ratios between stone-formers and control subjects. 4. These results are compatible with the hypothesis that the small increases in urinary oxalate excretion which occur in some idiopathic calcium oxalate stone-formers are due to increased absorption of oxalate from the intestine, which may be due to a reduction in intraluminal calcium concentration. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/630826/
Abstract: Cancer can metastasize to the placenta and to the fetus, and it may arise in man without familial predisposition in fetal or early postnatal life. Carcinogens administered to the mother can induce cancer in the human fetus and experimental animals. Many potential carcinogens tend to act as abortifacients and teratogens as well as carcinogens. Carcinogens administered to mothers can be dispersed by all their metabolic pathways and can be transferred transplacentally. In each exposed fetus, further metabolic pathways, or absence therof, as well as the individual gene makeup, influence the expression of an agent's potential. In the future, experimental evidence defining the pathways of carcinogenesis in adults will provide clearer insight into how cancers arise. This will be most helpful in unraveling the more complex issue of transplacental carcinogens. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/649004/
Abstract: Against the background of clinical experience attesting to the role of the circadian and circannual rhythm stage in gastric ulcerogenesis, animal experiments provide a model where by circadian stage and sex are both revealed as determinants of gastric ulcerogenesis. Experiments on the genetically mesor-hypertensive Okamoto rat demonstrate the critical interaction of multiple loads in ulcerogenesis, in keeping with a report by Glavin and Mikhail. While stimulation by single loads of a certain intensity--immobilization, food deprivation or cooling--did not regularly lead to the production of gastric ulcers, the combination of these same loads did so as a function of circadian state at the beginning of exposure time. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/649000/
Abstract: In a prospective study the daily milk intake and weight gain were recorded in 169 healthy newborn infants during the first week of life. Factor II, V and VII activities were determined on the fourth day using a capillary blood method with hematocrit correction factor. Late onset of feeding showed a major influence on factor II and VII activities. In full-term newborns factor II was correlated to the birth weight. Mode of delivery, color of amniotic fluid, umbilical cord round the neck, Apgar score and postnatal vitamin K prophylaxis showed no significant influence. In infants with abnormal cardiotocographic findings higher levels of factor II were determined. This can be explained by stress-induced liver maturation. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/648818/
Abstract: The relationship of body size to rates of gastric emptying of solid food was investigated in order to obtain data that may allow this variable to be considered when populations of varying size are studied. Rates of gastric emptying were measured using a beef stew meal to which were added pieces of chicken liver tagged with [99mTc]sulfur colloid, and following the passage of the isotope through the gastrointestinal tract with intermittent gamma-imaging. Results showed an inverse linear relationship between gastric emptying rates and body surface area, and between gastric emptying rates and body weight. The variable of body size must be taken into account when measurements of gastric emptying of solid food are measured. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/648225/
Abstract: Chylothorax occurred as a manifestation of severe congestive heart failure resulting from rheumatic mitral stenosis. Following replacement of the mitral valve, chylothorax recurred and was treated by thoracocentesis initially and then resolved during six months of therapy with a diet of medium-chain triglycerides. Ultimately, the patient resumed a regular diet with no further accumulation of pleural fluid. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/648878/
Abstract: Nutrient requirements do not change markedly with advancing age, but life style, socioeconomic status, psychologic changes, and the presence of chronic disease alter nutrient intake in the elderly. It is important to recognize and deal with these factors in attempting to correct malnutrition and in prescribing dietary treatment. Malnutrition includes a variety of disorders: undernutrition, nutrient deficiencies and imbalances, and obesity. Frequent small feedings, with nutritional supplements for patients with profound weight loss, are the initial treatment for undernutrition. Iron supplements and a diet of foods rich in iron and in promoting iron absorption are required in treating iron deficiency anemia. Management of macrocytic anemia should include specific nutrient therapy plus improvement of diet to include leafy vegetables and animal foodstuffs. Diet is an important adjunct in treating chronic diseases. Maturity-onset diabetes mellitus often can be managed by diet alone, with attention to correct proportions of fat, carbohydrate, and protein and to the decreased caloric requirements of elderly patients. The importance of continuing dietary modifications in hyperlipidemia and hypertension is well known. Although dietary manipulation in osteoporosis is not curative, a diet high in calcium and containing adequate floride and vitamin D affords maximum dietary protection against progress of the disease. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/649241/
Abstract: The effect of four crystal sizes, gastric contents, and gastrointestinal motility on the absorption and excretion of nitrofurantoin was studied in three separate cross-over studies on 10 healthy volunteers. Microcrystal preparation gave an early and high serum peak. The greater the crystal size was, the smaller was the peak serum concentration. Correspondingly, microcrystal preparations gave initially very high nitrofurantoin concentrations in urine. Macrocrystal preparation had a not significantly longer excretion time than the other preparations. Food did not increase the serum nitrofurantoin concentrations, but excretion during 4 to 6 h was considerably greater than after fasting. In contrast, antacid and the use of a delayed-release preparation greatly worsened the biovailability of nitrofurantoin. An increased gastric emptying rate induced by metoclopramide significantly worsened the absorption of nitrofurantoin, but atropine only retarded the absorption and the principal excretion in urine occurred during 4 to 8 h. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/649199/
Abstract: A case of persistent, high output, traumatic pancreatic fistula, complicated by the development of a gastric fistula secondary to a pancreatic abscess, is described. The problems associated with the metabolic and nutritional management are discussed. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/649261/
Abstract: An important factor associated with lead poisoning in children is the habit of eating non-food substances, a condition termed pica. In search for underlying mechanisms involved in the pathogenesis of pica, this investigation presents evidence in support of the hypothesis that in many families failure of normal mother-child interaction, paternal deprivation, culturally dependent maternal oral interests and significant stress factors in the home where abundant lead-containing material is available are etiologically related to the development of pica in lead poisoning. Other factors, which have been thought to be associated with pica, are nutritional deficiencies and maladaptive behavior patterns. A multifocal treatment approach is considered to be most effective. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/649718/
Abstract: A method for the analysis of testosterone (and 5alpha-dihydrotestosterone) conjugates in human serum and urine samples is described. The samples were grought to pH 1 and extracted with a diethyl ether-methanol mixture. After evaporation the residues were run in a thin-layer chromatography system, individual samples' paths were cut into 1-cm long pieces and eluted with methanol. The methanol was evaporated and the residue subjected to acid hydrolysis. The released steroid was extracted by diethyl ether and measured by radioimmunoassay. The methodology described represents a new approach to the qualitative and quantitative study of steroid conjugates in serum and urine, and can easily be applied to the study of steroid conjugates in other biological mateiral. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/649895/
Abstract: It is time to disabuse ourselves of the prevalent negative stereotypes and myths about aging. More people are living to an older age without the handicap of disease--and many of them are living independent, satisfying lives. True, there are old people who are loney, sick, and /or poor, but they are the minority. Nevertheless, they cannot be forgotten. There is an urgency to try to make their lives better. By ridding society of these negative stereotypes, better progress in the field of gerontology can be made. With nutrition woven so intimately into the fabric of satisfying living, opportunities beckon to the dietitian to provide service to the elderly. Done effectively, such service can add to the quality of life of all older persons, so that the later years can have dignity and meaning and indeed become a jewel in the mosaic of life. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/649910/
Abstract: With the Food and Drug Administration approval of the Hydrocurve soft contact lens, previously unsuccessful soft contact lens candidates may now be able to wear a Hydrocurve lens rather than being limited to the new ultrathin "semiflexible" or hard contact lenses as the only viable alternative. The Hydrocurve has proven to be an excellent lens with a potential to greatly increase the percentage of successful soft lens patients for the practitioner. Due to Hydrocurve's extensive flexibility in terms of base curve and diameter it has shown to be quite useful where other lenses have failed due to a lesser variability in parameters. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/649896/
Abstract: Food records kept by 466 individuals participating in the federally funded Nutrition Program for the Elderly show that those eating at the meal site on the day of the food record consumed more energy, protein, and calcium than non-participants and participants who did not eat there on the day of the record. Dietary ratings, which included eight nutrients and energy, indicated they also had better overall diets than non-participants. Non-participants consumed more iron than participants. The daily intake of all nutrients, except calcium, of those eating at the meal site reflected what was offered. Between 40 and 50 per cent of the total daily intake was consumed at the meal center. Women consumed a significantly greater proportion of their daily intake of most nutrients from the food provided by program than the men. The desirability of providing a high proportion of the recommended allowances for protein and other nutrients through the meal program menus is emphasized. The results of the study demonstrated the importance of nutritionists in administrative roles at the state and area levels in determining the effectiveness of a meal program, since food intake reflected menu planning. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/649898/
Abstract: In 1960, a survey showed Japanese orphanage children to be shorter in stature than Japanese children in general. In 1964, food budgets for orphanages were increased and, on Hokkaido, 180 gm. milk per day was made available for each child. In 1968, a further improvement in the diet was made by providing for an egg a day for each child, plus more liberal money allowances. Data from surveys in 1965 and 1970 on food served to these children reflected the improvements, as compared with 1960, Figures on the stature of the orphanage children were also compared. By 1970, the only orphanage children falling below the national mean were the teen-age boys and, to a lesser extent, the adolescent girls. Weight differences in all three surveys were less striking. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/649897/
Abstract: The nutritional knowledge and attitudes toward food and nutrition of sixty-four non-institutionalized elderly persons were surveyed. Findings were then examined in relation to these individuals' actual dietary behavior, measured as nutrient intakes and the purchase of health foods and vitamin/mineral supplements. On the basis of data from three-day food records per participant from three groups of elderly, it was found that, with the exception of energy and calcium intakes, mean nutrient intakes were satisfactory. Those who ate with others and who consumed more snacks had the most satisfactory diets. Socioeconomic status and nutritional knowledge were the key independent variables. A pattern of attitudes and beliefs, such as a belief that nutrition is important, a tendency to regard food and supplements as medicine, a belief in taking vitamin/mineral supplements, and weight-reducing misconceptions, acted as intervening variables to mediate the link between the indepedent variables and the dependent variables (dietary practices). 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/649899/
Abstract: A multi-echelon system was designed to generate statistical forecasts of menu-item demand in hospitals from one- through twenty-eight-day intervals prior to patient meal service. The three interdependent echelons were: (1) Forecasting patient census, (2) estimating diet category census, and (3) calculating menu-item demand. Eighteen weeks of supper data were utilized to analyze diet category distribution patterns and menu-item preferences, to test forecasting models, and to evaluate the performance of the forecasting system. A cost function was used to evaluate the efficiency of the mathematical forecasting system and manual technique over a nine-week period. The cost of menu-item forecast errors resulting from the use of adaptive exponential smoothing and Box-Jenkins formulations was approximately 40 per cent less than costs associated with the manual system. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/666129/
Abstract: This paper presents three cases of children suffering from repeated diseases and failure to thrive as a consequence of maternal inability in providing health care. Mother's oligophrenia, poverty, and familial unbalance were underlying causes. Authors define maternal incompetence syndrome as the association of mother's incapacity to provide proper health care with direct injury to the child and decreased growth rate. The relationship between this syndrome and the pediatric social illness is discussed. Strategies for treatment should include creation of multidisciplinary teams of social pediatricians, social workers and psychologists, and development of health education programs. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/666060/
Abstract: A chemically defined diet of low allergenicity was used to provide complete nutritional support for a week in a referred group of 27 patients. Food-sensitive patients remitted 70% of their allergy symptoms, supporting a diagnosis of dominant food etiology. For those the diet was continued while selected foods were orally challenged. Safe diets were thus established in about three weeks of largely patient-executed effort. Patients without remission were given concentrated attention toward establishing other etiologies. Remission was thus achieved in 85% of the cases. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/667006/
Abstract: 1. Quantitative selenium metabolism has been studied in normal young New Zealand women by measuring total Se intake and urinary and faecal Se output, and by using values for absorption, excretion and turnover of 75Se determined after administration of[75Se]selenomethionine or [75Se]selenite. 2. In a period of 14 d when a normal ad lib. diet was being consumed, mean dietary Se for four women was 24.2 microgram/d, mean urinary Se was 13.1 microgram/d and mean faecal Se was 10.8 microgram/d; mean Se balance during this time was + 0.3 microgram/d. 3. Intestinal absorption of food Se was 0.76--0.83 of intake (mean 0.79). 4. Whole-body Se was calculated in three different ways; (a) using the specific activity of urinary Se and retained whole-body 75Se; (b) using plasma Se and the occupancy of 75Se in whole-body and plasma; (c) using absorbed food Se and the occupancy of absorbed 75Se in whole-body. 5. Whole-body Se calculated from measurements obtained following the administration of [75Se]selenomethionine was 4.7--10.0 mg (mean 6.9) using method (a), 4.1--7.2 mg (mean 5.2) using method (b) and 4.3--8.9 mg (mean 6.2) using method (c). 6. Whole-body Se calculated from results obtained after giving [75Se]selenite was 2.7--3.4 mg (mean 2.9) using method (a), 2.3--5.0 mg (mean 3.5) using method (b) and 2.1--3.0 mg (mean 2.6) using method (c). 7. The results of this study indicate that the minimum dietary requirement of Se for the maintenance of normal human health is probably not more than 20 microgram/d. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/667373/
Abstract: The existence of dietary risk factors in breast cancer of post-menopausal women is a recent, and yet unproven hypothesis. A French survey made possible by the cooperation of general surgeons and radiotherapists practising in private clinics is currently in progress in a number of metropolitan departments. A preliminary evaluation of the first 654 questionnaires has proved entirely negative. There was no difference between women with breast cancer and a population of age-matched controls with regard to weight, height or the various traditionnal indices of obesity. However, the number of patients studied is too small to allow this hypothesis to be still rejected. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/667007/
Abstract: 1. The concentrations of vitamin B12 and folate in the serum and folate in the erythrocytes were determined and full blood counts made on a series of caucasian vegans and omnivore controls. 2. The blood counts and films were normal in all the vegans and no subject had a haemoblobin concentration below the lower limit of normality. 3. Although within the normal range, male but not female vegans had lower values for erythrocyte counts and higher values for mean corpuscular volume and mean corpuscular haemoglobin than their controls regardless of whether they were taking vitamin B12 supplements or not. 4. The mean serum vitamin B12 concentration was lower in the vegans not taking vitamin B12 supplements and in those using foods supplemented with the vitamin than in the controls, but in no subject was it below 80 ng/1. 5. The serum folate concentrations were higher in the vegans than in their controls. The mean value for erythrocyte folate tended to be greater in the vegans not taking vitamin B12 supplements. No subject had an erythrocyte folate concentration of less than 100 microgram/1. 6. It is concluded that megaloblastic anaemia is very rare in caucasian vegans and that a diet consisting entirely of plant foods is generally adequate to promote normal blood formation providing it is composed of a mixture of unrefined cereals, pulses, nuts, fruit and vegetables and is supplemented with vitamin B12. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/667372/
Abstract: Nutritional factors are suspected to cause oesophageal cancer as well as other cancers of the digestive tract. Sideropenia, lack of molybdenum, tannins have been reported to be associated with the disease. Polycyclic hydrocarbons and nitrosamines have been found in alcoholic beverages from high incidence regions; the significance of the small amounts detected remains to be assessed. A recent survey in Iran points out the role of poor and monotonous diet. In Brittany, no major deficiencies were found, neither in quantity or quality, in the diet of 200 male cases of oesophageal cancer when compared with a population control group. Differences in consumption were detected for a few items; the most obvious discrepancies concerned the various alcoholic beverages for which the proportion of heavy consumers was systematically greater among cases. Alcohol and tobacco are both independently associated with the disease; there is a dose-response relationship for both and their effects are multiplicative. The mechanism of the action of alcohol in oesophageal cancer is briefly discussed. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/666132/
Abstract: Plasma-renin activity was studied, under different conditions of sitmulation, in normal subjects and patients with essential hypertension. In normal subjects, three components of renin release, "basal," "neural," and "sodium-sensitive," could be delineated. Among the hypertensive patients, abnormal patterns of renin release were noted. The categorization of patients according to "plasma-renin status," however, differed with the conditions of testing, being dependent both on the pathophysiology of the essential hypertension and the character of the renin-releasing stimulus, specifically whether this stimulus elevated plasma-renin activity through a predominantly neural (upright posture) or non-neural mechanism (dietary sodium deprivation). Abnormal plasma-renin activity in essential hypertension resulted in part from disordered sympathetic nervous system function. Patients with mild hypertension and elevated plasma-renin activity exhibited increased neural stimulation of renin release, whereas in patients with low plasma-renin values, all three components of renin release, including the neural element, were diminished. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/667549/
Abstract: Benign duodencolic fistula is a rare complication of a number of gastrointestinal diseases and it is seldom considered in diagnosis. Diarrhoea and weight loss are characteristic presenting features which may be masked by coexisting disease. Barium enema is the most useful diagnostic procedure. Prognosis is good if surgery is undertaken at an early stage after adequate correction of the metabolic consequences of the fistula, by administration of fluid, electrolytes and parenteral nutrition. This paper reports 4 cases of this condition and reviews the clinical features, investigation, aetiology and management. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/667545/
Abstract: In 19 patients in whom the stomach had been used as an intrathoracic replacement after osephagectomy the absorption of fat, carbohydrate and protein was studied. There is no single pattern of disturbance of such absorption. Protein digestion and absorption occur earlier and more rapidly than in normal subjects, probably as a result of accelerated gastric emptying. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/667551/
Abstract: Abdominal wound healing was studied in 48 patients undergoing laparotomy for jaundice and 281 anicteric patients undergoing elective operations for cholelithiasis at the Sheffield Royal Infirmary during the period 1967 to 1976. Wound dehiscence or incisional hernia occurred in 27.1 per cent of jaundiced patients and in 4.3 per cent of anicteric patients (P less than 0.001). There was a slightly higher incidence of dehiscence and herniation in deeply icteric patients (plasma bilirubin greater than 170 mu mol/l), but patients who developed these complications did not appear to have a more severe degree of malnutrition or impaired liver function. The results of the study suggest that malignant disease may be an important factor in the pathogenesis of wound complications in jaundiced patients. Wound dehiscence or incisional hernia occurred in 59.1 per cent of patients with obstructive jaundice resulting from malignant disease but patients with jaundice resulting from biliary stones or benign pathology did not develop these complications. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/667807/
Abstract: A 48-year-old woman presented with the classical clinicopathological features of the lymphangiomyomatosis syndrome. After a three year stable period, there was the onset of a rapidly progressive downhill course unresponsive to dietary, bronchodilator and corticosteroid therapy. Pathological findings were characterized by widespread pulmonary, thoracic duct and lymph node involvement. There was a mediastinal lymphangiomyoma growing within the distal thoracic duct, and a similar lesion within the left kidney which could clinically mimic an angiomyolipoma. Comments are also made on the finding of a parathyroid adenoma. The physiopathology and possible resemblance to "formes frustes" of tuberous sclerosis are discussed. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/667882/
Abstract: The ambulatory management of hypertension is relatively simple. A key factor in the success of any program is motivation of both the physician and the patient. Workup should be limited to a few simple tests as outlined; need rarely, if ever, involve hospitalization; and can be completed in one or two office or clinic visits. Treatment of hypertion over a long-term period involves the use of specific drug therapy, although some slight modification of lifestyle or diet is occasionally helpful. There are numerous drugs available, and in over 80 to 85 percent of cases, an effective combination can be found. Drug therapy must be continuous; it is rare, in our experience, that medication can be completely discontinued. Data available from the Veterans Administration study, as well as my own, clearly indicate that effective lowering of blood pressure over a long period of time is cost-effective and delays or prevents numerous complications that are frequently noted in untreated patients. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/668086/
Abstract: Platelet survival time (SURV) (autologous labelling with 51Chromium) was shortened (3 +/- 0.03 days; average t 1/2 +/- SEM; normal t 1/2 3.7 +/- 0.03 days) in 88 out of 128 (69%) men with coronary disease. In 35 out of 47 men with hyperprebetalipoproteinemia, SURV was shortened (3 +/- 0.09 days) (74%). Of 30 men with hyperbetalipoproteinemia, SURV was shortened (2.5 +/- 0.10 days) in 26 (87%). Of 51 men without hyperlipoproteinemia, SURV was normal (3.3 +/- 0.10 days) in 24 (47%). Dietary alteration of serum triglyceride was undertaken in 12 men with hyperprebetalipoproteinemia, and in eight a decrease of triglyceride of more than 75 mg% was achieved (324 +/- 21-219 +/- 18 mg%; P less than 0.001) with an increase of SURV (2.2 +/- 0.11-2.8 +/- 0.13 days; P less than 0.001). In four, serum triglyceride increased by more than 75 mg% (279 +/- 14-451 +/- 28 mg%) and SURV decreased (2.7 +/- 0.16-2.3 +/- 0.21 days). Cholestyramine (16 g g.d.) and diet decreased serum cholesterol (348 +/- 7.6-319 +/- 6.3 mg%; P less than 0.001) in 15 men with hyperbetalipoproteinemia and SURV increased (2.3 +/- 0.08-2.7 +/- 0.07 days; P less than 0.001). Results suggest that SURV is shortened in men with coronary disease, particularly in those with hyperlipoproteinemia, and that alteration of triglyceride and cholesterol are associated with alteration of SURV. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/667782/
Abstract: Through the 1970s, Benjamin Feingold has published a series of studies in which he claimed that a diet free of salicylates, artificial food flavours and colours results in a remission of symptoms in 30 to 50 percent of children diagnosed as hyperactive. Parents of hyperactive children have responded strongly to the hypothesis and have requested that their children be placed on the diet. A series of clinical studies of the Feingold diet have produced mixed results. More recently, there have been four sets of experimental studies which have resulted in rigorous tests of the original diet and a modified diet with salicylates included but artificial additives excluded. None of the studies give unqualified support for the hypothesized diet effects, and there are reports which refute the thesis. There are findings which suggest that some hyperactive children (10 to 25 percent), particularly younger ones, respond favourably to a diet free of artificial additives. The lack of conclusive evidence dictates that additional research be conducted to test the hypothesis. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/668117/
Abstract: The excretion of bile acids in urine from a patient with chronic malabsorption was investigated. Bile acids were separated according to mode of conjugation using a lipophilic anion exchanger, diethylaminohydroxypropyl Sephadex LH-20. Following hydrolysis, individual bile acids were analyzed by computerized GC/MS. In addition, bile acid glucuronides were isolated and their methyl ester trimethylsilyl ether derivatives were directly analyzed by GC/MS. The patient had a normal or slightly increased excretion of bile acids in urine. Bile acids carrying a hydroxyl group at C-6 constituted about 40% of the total. Tetrahydroxylated bile acids were present which have not been found in healthy subjects. Glucuronides of otherwise unconjugated bile acids accounted for 20% of the total. About 90% of these conjugates were 6-hydroxylated, hyodeoxycholic acid being the major bile acid. It is suggested that a specific abnormality of bile acid metabolism is related to the disease in this patient. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/668092/
Abstract: Hyperlipidemia clearly is a risk factor for atherosclerotic disease in adults and very likely contributes to atherogenesis in children. The American Heart Association recommends that children with elevated plasma cholesterol or triglyceride be placed on an appropriate diet in order to reduce their risk of hyperlipidemia and possibly to reduce their risk of atherosclerotic disease when they become adults. Although the evidence does not yet support the recommendation that cholesterol and saturated fat should be reduced in the diet of all children, the public should be advised that such modification appears safe and very likely to be beneficial. Measuring plasma lipids of all children in order to prevent atherosclerotic disease probably is not cost effective. However, children of high risk families should be examined for hyperlipidemia. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/668103/
Abstract: The clinical course of twenty-one patients who presented with life-threatening symptoms, appearing to be allergic in aetiology, is described. In ten of these patients clinical evaluation established a diagnosis, for example: drug allergy, food allergy, a curious form of hospital addiction syndrome, an underlying malignancy, systemic mast cell disease or a complement abnormality. In the remaining subjects, it was found that their condition could be stabilized with sympathomimetics, antihistamines and corticosteroids. In those in whom no aetiology could be found, there was usually a spontaneous subsidence of the frequency and severity of attacks or spontaneous remission. No fatalities occurred. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/668143/
Abstract: 25 subjects volunteered to document circadian changes in serum magnesium. 4 groups were formed: 7 healthy young males (24.0 years +/- 3.9), 6 elderly males (82.5 years +/- 7.5), 6 elderly females 81.2 years +/- 10.7) and 6 elderly insame subjects of both sexes (80.5 years +/- 8.6). They were socially synchronized with a diurnal activity (07.00 to 21.00 for the old subjects; 07.00 to 23.00 for the young ones) and nocturnal rest. The subjects followed a spontaneous diet. Venous blood was sampled at 4-h intervals and fixed clock hours (07.45, 11.45, 15.45, 19.45, 23.45, 03.45) during 24 h. The single cosinor method was used for the statistical analysis of the time series. A statistically significant circadian rhythm is detected in three of the groups: young males, elderly males and elderly females (no rhythm detection in elderly insane subjects). The 24-h mean is higher in elderly subjects than in the young one. The rhythm amplitude is larger in elderly males than in young ones. The acrophase (peak time) location in the 24-h scale is 10.12 h for elderly females, 11.35 h for elderly males and 16.36 h for young males. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/668146/
Abstract: The possibility was examined that the hyperlipidaemia of pregnancy may reflect abnormal cholesterol metabolism, as occurs in some other hyperlipidaemic states. Seven women were studied during the three trimesters of pregnancy and the increase in their plasma lipid concentrations was compared with their sterol balance, measured over 8-day periods in each trimester. Dietary intake of cholesterol was identical during the three study periods. Faecal bile acid excretion peaked during the second trimester and this coincided with the initial rise in plasma triglyceride levels. However, the rise in bile acid output was counter-balanced by a fall in neutral steroid excretion, so that the net cholesterol balance throughout pregnancy was not dissimilar to that reported in healthy non-pregnant women. The hyperlipidaemia of pregnancy is therefore not associated with an increase in cholesterol synthesis, although the altered ratio of bile acids to neutral steroids resembles that reported in other hypertriglycerdaemic states. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/668151/
Abstract: (1) A non-compartmental method is described for analysing the kinetics of the exchange of calcium between the bloodstream and the exchangeable bone pools. (2) This method has been applied to studies on osteoporotic patients treated with low doses of an active fragment of human parathyroid hormone. The data of Phang et al. (1969), who studied the effects of dietary calcium peturbation on normal volunteers, were also analysed. (3) It was found that in response to chronic PTH treatment the transit time of calcium in the exchangeable pools decreased. This could not be explained by the observed changes in the calcium accretion rate to the fixed bone pools, and it was necessary to postulate an alteration in the ratio of the rate constants governing the interchange of calcium between bloodstream and exchangeable pools. (4) The changes in the behaviour of the exchangeable pools in response to dietary perturbation could not be explained by the postulated increase in endogenous PTH secretion rate in response to dietary calcium restriction. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/668225/
Abstract: Sixteen patients with chronic renal failure on maintenance hemodialysis were studied before and during oral treatment with essential amino acids. The patients received their usual diets (60-100 g protein/day) throughout the study. Plasma amino acids were studied pre-dialysis before supplements were started, after one month and after three months treatment; some measurements were also carried out post-dialysis. Before treatment 63% of patients pre-dialysis, and 82% post dialysis, had at least one essential amino acid value which was lower than our normal range. After one month of treatment 38% of patients pre-dialysis, and 67% post-dialysis, had one or more low essential amino acid value. After 3 months only 2 patients had an abnormal essential amino acid chromatogram pre-dialysis. Changes in non-essential amino acids, blood urea, serum proteins and hemoglobin are also reported. The data show that low plasma essential amino acid concentrations are frequently present in patients on maintenance hemodialysis even when the diet contains theoretically adequate amounts of protein. This deficiency can be corrected successfully with oral essential amino acid supplements. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/683692/
Abstract: It has been the impression of clinicians that pineal calcification is infrequent in Shiraz, Iran. In order to evaluate this clinical impression 2000 consecutive skul X-rays taken at Saadi Hospital, Shiraz, Iran, were reviewed for the presence of physiologic intracranial calcifications. The incidence of these clasifications in male and female in consecutive age groups of 10 years from 0 to over 70 years of age were assessed and compared with previous reports from other countries. The average incidence of pineal calcification for those over 20 years of age was 18.29% in this study compared with 55% in the U.S.A. The incidence of calcification in the choroid plexus and the falx cerebri was also considerably less than previously reported. The literature is reviewed and the possible causes for the geographical differences in the reported frequency of physiologic intracranial calcifications is discussed. It is possible that racial and dietary factors may be significant in the variation in the incidence of pineal and other cranial calcifications noted in different countries. Within a population group, age and sex are additional factors. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/683657/
Abstract: Adolescent pregnancy has long been considered high risk perinatally. It is also a symptom of social disorder. Older studies provided ominous portents of increased risk of toxemia, prematurity, anemia, cephalopelvic disproportion, and perinatal wastage. Studies during the past decade have shown more encouraging data, especially when representing a concerted effort toward this age group. The first 2 years of an intensive and individual approach to gravidas under age 17 are discussed. A total of 135 young women were studied and compared with 100 controls of similar age, treated routinely, and with 100 women of more nearly ideal childbearing age. Perinatal and social data are shown. The implications of the data are discussed in light of other studies. Few, if any, medical differences between the two groups of adolescents and the older women are noted. More important are the social and emotional factors in determining future difficulties. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/683647/
Abstract: Five patients with malformation and hypoplasia of the cervix due to diethylstilbestrol (DES)-exposure in utero developed cervical incompetency during the second trimester. Four of the patients were managed successfully during pregnancy with a modified Shirodkar cerclage procedure which was performed at the first sign of cervical effacement and dilitation. The fifth patient, who had lost 2 pregnancies because of cervical incompentency, underwent a modified Lash procedure and permanent cerclage in the nonpregnant state and was delivered at term by primary cesarean section. In view of the large number of women exposed to DES who have grossly abnormal-appearing and hypoplastic cervices, it is important for obstetricians to be aware of this potential complication in order to avoid second trimester losses which could be prevented by prompt surgical intervention. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/683929/
Abstract: Acute renal failure even today carries a high mortality, which is related directly to the aetiology of the condition and the age of the patient. Modern radiological techniques have added considerably to the early diagnosis of obstructive factors and acute tubular necrosis. Early treatment and correction of prerenal factors can frequently forestall the development of established acute renal failure but if this is inevitable total patient care and full supportive measures including dialysis should be available. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/683861/
Abstract: Ninety-two young patients of normal weight with glycosuria were classified according to the results of glucose tolerance tests into renal diabetes (32 cases) and chemical diabetes (53 cases). After 5 years or more 17 of the patients with renal diabetes were located. In only one case had the development of chemical diabetes led to correction of the initial diagnosis to that of potential diabetes with a reduced renal glucose threshold. Family histories of diabetes were identical in both groups (renal and chemical diabetes) (35 %) and did not provide any means for distinguishing renal diabetes from diabetes mellitus with a reduced renal glucose threshold. Amongst the 34 subjects with chemical diabetes who were located, 3 had become frank diabetics (9 %). Chemical diabetes persisted in 14 patients (42 %) and 17 (50 %) could be considered to be normal. In addition to the three subjects with frank diabetes, only 9 patients (5 with chemical diabetes and 4 normal) continued to take oral therapy at the time of the final examination. However, 13 of these patients who were not taking any treatment had abandoned it relatively recently. Even if the effectiveness of oral therapy is not fully clear, it should be remembered that continued treatment renders the patient less neglectful as far as diet is concerned. Tests for microangiopathy in the three diabetic patients were negative. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/683780/
Abstract: Assay of ornithine transcarbamylase (OTC) activity in multiple small bits of liver (approximately 5 mg) that were obtained from a single surgical biopsy in a patient with OTC deficiency revealed a 10- to 40-fold variation in enzyme activity. Similar studies with control autopsy liver specimens varied 2.5-fold at most. The greater variation in the patient with OTC deficiency probably is due to sampling of clusters of normal or abnormal hepatocytes that resulted from inactivation of either the abnormal or normal X chromosone. Enzyme activity assayed on small liver biopsy specimens may not be representative of the entire liver in female patients with OTC deficiency. The hyperammonemia in individuals heterozygous for OTC deficiency may be due in part to shunting of blood through multiple "metabolic portosystemic shunts." Treatment of a girl who has OTC deficiency with a low-protein diet, a low-protein diet supplemented with oral essential amino acids, and a low-protein diet plus oral ketoacids of essential amino acids, on a separate occasion, a low-protein diet was compared to a low-protein diet plus lactulose. The low-protein diet plus oral ketoacid supplementation resulted in the best metabolic control of the patient's disease. On the other hand, paradoxical transient hyperammonemia was observed after the intarvenous administration of ketoacids to two acutely ill female patients with OTC deficiency. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/683919/
Abstract: The pleuro-pulmonary pathology of asbestos, top most of silicates, is today well known. Other silicates, talcum powder, clays, micas essentially, are exploited and commercialized. Their pathology is less well known and often contradictory because of the heterogeneity of the inhaled minerals. All can contain large quantities of quartz and some varieties of talcum and a considerable proportion of asbestos fibres. These minerals can provoke severe pneumoconioses, silicoses and asbestoses respectively. Some relatively pure products do not contain these contaminants. In case of intense and prolonged dust inhaling, they can produced an impressive pneumoconiosis with relatively mild clinical signs as shown by the series of 27 cases of pneumoconiosis from the french talcum powder as reported by the authors. The chemical nature and electronic structure of different silicates are very similar. It raises the question of the noxious effect of asbestos and the relative innocuousness of other minerals of the same family, and wether the fibrous structure alone is implicated. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/683964/
Abstract: The authors studied the lipid metabolism indices (total lipids, cholesterol, triglycerides, phospholipids, serum gonadotropin) in 60 patients with a latent form of diabetes mellitus, 40 persons with doubtful results of TTH, and 120 persons with a normal TTH type. In 50 patients with latent diabetes the lipid metabolism indices were determined depending on the character of treatment--diet treatment, treatment with diet and adebit, and unlimited diet. Disturbance of lipid metabolism indices was noted already at the early stages of diabetes mellitus: there was an elevation of total lipids, triglycerides, serum gonadotropin, and cholesterol. An improvement of lipid metabolism indices occurred under the action of adebit; it produced a particularly significant effect on triglycerides. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/684155/
Abstract: This study was designed to assess the functional efficiency of the ageing small intestine and the possible role of malabsorption in old people with nutritional deficiencies. Fifty subjects aged 65 to 92 years were studied, of whom 33 presented with anaemia, chronic diarrhoea or bone pains, and 17 were apparently healthy 'controls' with no relevant symptoms. Tests of intestinal function included blood xylose and iron absorption curves, a double isotope Schilling test, faecal fat, urinary indican and small bowel radiology, with duodenal aspiration and jejunal biopsy in some cases. On the basis either of steatorrhoea or at least two other abnormal parameters of absorption, there were 15 cases of malabsorption. Thirteen of these had symptoms but two were 'controls'. Four of these had duodenal diverticulosis, two had the post-gastrectomy syndrome, and one had calcific pancreatitis. Malabsorption in the remaining eight cases was not fully explained. The age range of this last group was 72--86 years; one of them had a contaminated small bowel and two showed some evidence of pancreatic insufficiency. Malabsorption emerged as a significant cause of low levels of serum iron, haemoglobin and calcium. The blood xylose test is a useful screening procedure for intestinal malabsorption in old age, but full evaluation calls for investigation of pancreatic function. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/684260/
Abstract: A study on the lactose intolerance of adults was carried out through dietary survey, clinical data and tolerance tests. It was performed in 24 healthy persons, aged 19 to 39 years. Only one of the participants referred milk intolerance since childhood. Eleven of the 24 adults had signs of lactose intolerance through clinical symptoms and/or low increase of blood sugar after the load test. It was noteworthy that the majority of the intolerants were white people. It is discussed the practical importance of these lactose tolerance tests as an index of milk tolerance, considering the high recommended amount of lactose used in the tests. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/684418/
Abstract: A new bioassay for chemical attractants of aquatic snails demonstrated that Biomphalaria glabrata could be attracted to or trapped in the vicinity of homogenates of lettuce. Fractionation of homogenates revealed the amino acids glutamate and proline and the primary attractants. Attraction was specific for the L form of glutamate. Proline appeared to stimulate reproductive activity. Glutathione, gamma-aminobutyric acid, and a number of other compounds had no effect. Extracts of lyophilized snail tissue also attracted other snails and may thus contain pheromones. These results permit formulation and testing of controlled-release attractants designed to overcome the repellant effects of slow-release molluscicides, as well as the design of stimulants to be used with no-release poisons. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/684404/
Abstract: Using neutron activation analysis, vanadium was analysed in a range of foods, human body fluids and tissues. On the basis of these results and those of other workers, it was concluded that daily dietary intake amounts to some tens of micrograms. Analysis of body fluids (including milk, blood and excreta) and organs and tissues provided an estimate for the total body pool of vanadium in man of about 100 microgram. Vanadium was not detectable in blood and urine at the level of 0.3 ng/g, while low levels were found in muscle, fat, bone, teeth and other tissues. The relationship between dietary intake to pulmonary absorption is discussed in relation to the occurrence of vanadium in man-made air particulates. The very low levels found in milks and eggs suggest minimal vanadium requirements in growth. The findings are discussed in the light of previous results and also in relation to the possible essentiality of vanadium. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/684491/
Abstract: The standard preparation for cleansing the colon usually involves dietary restrictions, purgatives, and enemas. This is time-consuming, often uncomfortable, and at times unsuccessful. This study of 37 patients examines the efficacy of saline lavage as an alternative method for cleansing the bowel. Isotonic sodium chloride solution is passed into the gut via a small nasogastric tube. The flush is continued for about four hours, until clear effluent is passed per anus. There were no significant complications or variations in weight or serum electrolyte values. Patient acceptance was generally excellent. In our opinion, this rapid bowel preparation consistently provided a clean bowel so that both bowel preparation and colonscopy were accomplished the same day. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/684554/
Abstract: From 1969 to 1973, average expenditures for food at home reported by Retirement History Study respondents increased by almost the same proportion--30 percent--as did the food component of the consumer price index. Changes in these expenditures were not very responsive to changes in income, but income had greater power in explaining total food expenditures. The analysis was based largely on a regression technique that identifies the factors most important in explaining the variation in food expenditures. Size of household was the most important predictor of both the total level of household food expenditures and the per person level. Residence (urban, rural nonfarm, and farm), a proxy variable for home-produced food, was also generally significant. With size of household and income taken into account, a number of socioeconomic variables--including race, sex, age, morale, health, education, and homeownership--were found not significant. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/684157/
Abstract: Detailed investigations on 42 patients with dermatitis herpetiformis (DH) are presented, emphasis being placed on the presence of other disorders having a prominent immunopathogenic basis. These patients and 42 age and sex matched controls were submitted to an extensive clinical and investigative search for the presence of disorders with an immunological basis including the atopic disorders. The findings provided further evidence supporting the association of dermatitis herpetiformis with thyroid disease and pernicious anaemia. A statistically increased incidence of Raynaud's phenomenon and atopy was found in the patients with dermatitis herpetiformis compared to the control group. In addition, of the patients with dermatitis herpetiformis, two had rheumatoid arthritis, two had ulcerative colitis, one had systemic lupus erythematosus and four had splenomegaly. The possible basis for these associations is discussed and it is suggested that dermatitis herpetiformis may be part of a wider spectrum of disease. Genetic linkage and the formation of immune complexes following exposure to a dietary antigen may both be responsible for the disorders associated with DH. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/684615/
Abstract: One hundred and one patients underwent jejunoileal bypass after careful preoperative evaluation. These patients were re-evaluated after operation on a frequent basis, and 23% have required restoration of intestinal continuity (reanastomosis) by a mean postoperative time of 44 months. The most frequent reasons for reanastomosis were liver dysfunction (5% of the entire series), severe malnutrition or weakness (5%), and late electrolyte imbalance (4%). Two patients did not survive reanastomosis, both having liver failure. Of the patients who did survive, weight gain (approaching prebypass weight) and improvement in liver function tests, electrolyte balance, serum vitamin levels, and diarrhea have been the rule. Of the entire series of 101 patients who underwent bypass, 58% either had life-threatening complications, had to be reanastomosed, or died. These morbidity and mortality rates raise the important question of whether jejunoileal bypass is an appropriate procedure for the treatment of morbid obesity. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/684856/
Abstract: The skin colour of 106 Nigerian tuberculosis patients was measured by colorimetry; and a relative hypochromia, particularly of the face, was found to be associated with tuberculous infection. The hypochromia reached a significant degree compared to a group of 126 control patients with other medical conditions from whom tuberculosis had been excluded. Successful treatment of the tuberculosis resulted in re-pigmentation. It is suggested that relative hypochromia should be included in the list of non-specific signs which may be looked for when considering tuberculosis in the differential diagnosis of chronic cough, and debilitating disease, in the African. The hypochromia of protein-calorie malnutrition was not included in the study, but its importance in relation to coincident tuberculosis is noted. A simple method of measuring skin colour in the consulting room needs to be developed. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/702289/
Abstract: A comparative bioavailability study was performed using two commercially available, chemically equivalent brands of sulfamethizole suspension. One gram of each suspension was administered to 12 different subjects following a completely randomized crossover design. Serum levels and derived pharmacokinetic parameters were compared statistically. There were no significant differences in the extent of sulfamethizole absorption from the two suspensions as evidenced by the area under the serum level--time curves. Significant differences (p less than 0.05) in the mean serum levels at 0.5 and 0.75 hr and differences in Cmax and tmax indicated that the absorption rate differed for the two products. In vitro tests including particle-size analysis and dissolution studies were performed. The size--frequency distribution of particles in the suspensions was studied using a resistance particle counter. The dissolution characteristics of the two products were studied using the Food and Drug Administration's paddle method and the spin-filter apparatus. Suspension A had a significantly greater amount of drug dissolved at 15 and 30 min using either method. It also had a greater percentage of particles at the smaller size range, indicating that the greater dissolution rate may be related directly to the decreased particle size. A comparison of the in vivo and in vitro results demonstrated a definite rank-order correlation between the dissolution performance of the two suspensions and the in vivo parameters reflecting the absorption rate. Suspension A had a greater amount of drug dissolved at 15 and 30 min and resulted in higher serum levels at 0.5 and 0.75 hr, a higher Cmax, and a shorter tmax. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/701719/
Abstract: Since the spring of 1974, the University of Houston, College of Optometry has been involved in teaching optometry students the benefits of interdisciplinary health care. Optometry students have worked and learned with allied health, dietetic, nursing, pharmacy and social work students in a disadvantaged area in Houston. The primary purposes of the course were to assist students to learn about the expertise of other professional students, to work in an interdisciplinary team, and to learn about the multifaceted components of health care and the health resources of a community. This paper discusses the program and suggests this model of the Houston experience as one way of teaching interdisciplinary care. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/701791/
Abstract: Roof-collected rainwater is a common water source in subtropical regions and has not been associated with human illness. In Trinidad, the West Indies, a church group, attending a rural camp, developed gastrointestinal illness, caused by Salmonella arechevalata. This rare serotype was isolated from stool specimens of campers, foods eaten at the camp, and a water tap, which was supplied by a storage tank of roof-collected rainwater. The surface of the roof, used as water catchment, was covered with bird faeces. It is postulated that rainwater, falling on the roof, washed off animal excrement which contained S. arechevalata and led to the outbreak of salmonellosis through camper ingestion of contaminated food and water. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/702458/
Abstract: There is currently great interest in the care of the elderly in general practice and discussion about the role of surveillance programmes. We report a comparison between two surveys of an elderly population carried out with a view to determining the difference in findings between two surveys of the same population.Each patient had an average of 4.8 problems at the time of the second assessment. The number of active and unknown problems fell from 6.4 per patient at the initial assessment.The greatest improvements were found in such topics as clothing, bedding, heating, dentition, diet, vision, and hearing, and the least in such aspects as dependency, home hazards, and problems with a caring relative.We remain convinced that a continuing programme of geriatric assessment is valuable in general practice. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/702442/
Abstract: Three hundred and one babies were surveyed for one year in an infant welfare clinic in North London. There was no significant difference at six months and one year of age in the mean weights of babies breast-fed for more than one month and those not breast-fed at all.At six months, the mean weight of those babies given solid food before three months of age was significantly higher than the mean weight of those babies given solids only after three months of age. This difference had disappeared by one year of age. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/702569/
Abstract: It is impossible to talk about nutrition and the elderly without reviewing related factors such as program funding levels, income and purchasing power, education, medical implications, and resulting social costs.Although we have witnessed a tremendous increase in federal appropriations for Title VII programs, many senior citizens have not and will not benefit from nutrition programs. As the ratio of elderly citizens to total population increases, we may expect: (1) an increase in program budgets with a concomitant decrease in the proportion of senior citizens served; and (2) a regressed government attitude toward income-related support programs, causing decreased purchasing power, ineffective nutrition programs, and little relative improvement in the health of our elderly population. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/702587/
Abstract: Constipation pervades our society. It is associated with emotional stress, lack of dietary fiber, and ignorance. Laxative stimulants, bulk forming agents, stool softeners, and osmotic cathartics may all be needed to treat endstage constipation initially, but "weaning" should be possible in most cases. Endstage constipation, in rare cases, can be life threatening due to urinary tract or colonic obstruction or perforation. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/702628/
Abstract: In South Africa, in urban but not rural areas, hypertension in Black adults is commoner than in local White adults. To throw light on this situation, blood pressures have been determined in series of South African Blacks, initially on children aged 10--12 years, in rural and urban areas. Mean data are among the lowest recorded. They are lower (p less than 0.01) in the main than those of Black children in U.S.A. Neither levels of salt nor sugar intakes appeared influential. Evidently, noxious factors promotive of hypertension in urban Black adults are not yet in operation in children. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/702659/
Abstract: The effect of oral administration of magnesium oxide on the crystallization in urine of calcium oxalate and brushite was determined in 4 cases of recurrent calcium nephrolithiasis. Each patient was evaluated while on a constant metabolic diet before, during and after therapy with magnesium (1,000 mg. magnesium as magnesium oxide per day). During magnesium therapy urinary hydrogen ion concentration increased by approximately 0.5 unit in all 4 patients and urinary calcium increased about 50 mg. per day in 2. Urinary oxalate decreased significantly in 1 patient and urinary phosphorus was reduced in 2. The urinary activity product ratio of brushite (state of saturation) increased, owing largely to the rise in urinary hydrogen ion concentration but that of calcium oxalate was not changed significantly by magnesium treatment. Although urinary magnesium increased significantly there was no significant change in the urinary formation product ratio (limit of metastability) or the rate of crystal growth of brushite or calcium oxalate. Thus, no beneficial effect of magnesium therapy could be demonstrated in this short-term study. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/703467/
Abstract: The effects of ethanol upon amino acid metabolism represent a complex interaction of ethanol metabolism and its products, nutritional abnormalities and pathological alterations in various organs especially the liver. The effects of chronic alcohol consumption upon amino acid absorption, digestion and transport appear largely of theoretical interest without significant impact on nitrogen balance, hepatic urea or protein synthesis or plasma amino acid patterns. Marked alterations in amino acid metabolism in the liver and other organs are observed in human alcoholics. These result in changes in plasma and tissue levels of amino acids and may explain or contribute to hepatic encephalopathy by altering levels of intermediate products such as catecholamines and neurotransmitters. Plasma amino acid changes due to ethanol may also provide a biochemical marker for the assessment of ethanol consumption in an objective fashion. Amino acid requirements in the diet may be altered in the alcoholic along with lowered protein tolerance. Administration of selected proteins or mixtures of amino acids may provide a means for maintaining nitrogen balance while avoiding or improving hepatic encephalopathy in such patients. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/703457/
Abstract: This study presents a comparison of in vitro cytotoxic food allergy test results with those of in vivo intracutaneous food allergy testing by both objective serial dilution titration and subjective provocation. During the study the cytotoxic test was utilized as a screening device for follow-up Lee intracutaneous testing, the latter providing statistics for both noted in vivo intracutaneous tests. The study is presented in two stages. The first stage documents almost 6000 comparison test results on 300 consecutive food-allergic otolarynogology patients. Thirty-four of the more frequently offending foods were utilized. Of the cytotoxic tests, 86% resulted in positive reactions. Of the positive cytotoxic reactors, 74% were intracutaneously re-checked. Only those negative cytotoxic reactors suspected of false negativity were so challenged, affording comparison statistics for a smaller 21% of the negative reactors. Poor correlation statistics for this select negative reacting group prompted a follow-up 30-patient study on 11 foods that appeared to possess a lesser potential for hypersensitivity production. The second stage emphasizes similar test comparisons on the negative cytotoxic reactors. The study concludes that no correlation exists between in vitro cytotoxic test determinations and those of in vivo intracutaneous testing by objective serial dilution titration or subjective provocation. Because most allergic individuals have multiple food allergies, clinical success utilizing the information obtained from any or all of these procedures may rely significantly on the tests' inherent tendency to identify multiple guilty foods for ultimate treatment. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/703586/
Abstract: The studies were performed among 105 workers aged 19 to 30 years, working in a 3-shift-system for at least one year. A questionnaire method of examination was used. Each worker was asked about his usual frequency of meals, sleep time and life routine while working on different shifts, as well as about the consumption of food in the last 24 hours. Usually, regardless of the period of working shift, workers consumed few number 57 meals. Meals during the working time were eaten mostly by morning-shift workers and very rarely by night-shift workers. Comparing calorific values of the meals consumed prior to the working hours at different time of shift work it has been shown that the meals consumed before night shift had the highest values, whereas the meals consumed prior to the morning shift had the lowest values. Generally, the meals consumed by shift workers did not vary and involved a large percentage of meat products, and fats, and too little percentage of vegetables, fruit, milk and dairy products. The food consumed by the workers under examinination contained mainly fats, protein and relatively little carbohydrates and ascorbic acid. Most of the workers preferred morning shift although sleep time was longest in case of afternoon shift. Complaints typical of the night shift included great fatigue and sleepiness. The sleep time was the shortest in case of this shift and sometimes it hardly amounted to 3 hours per day. The obtained results may be used for an elaboration of the lines of most suitably arranged meals schedule for shift and night workers. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/703606/
Abstract: The effect of para-aminosalicylic acid-C (PAS-C, 8 g/day) on lipid metabolism was studied on a metabolic ward in nine subjects with primary endogenous hypertriglyceridemia. During 2 wk on a basal isocaloric liquid formula diet (40% fat, 45% carbohydrate), PAS-C reduced plasma triglyceride (-41.9 +/- 18.9%, p less than .01, -x +/- SD), cholesterol (-22.8 +/- 12.9%, p less than .005), and a very low density lipoprotein triglyceride (p less than .001) and cholesterol (p less than .01) levels without changing the cholesterol content of low density or high density lipoproteins. Similar effects occurred on a fat-free, 85% carbohydrate diet. Decreases in very low density lipoproteins correlated with changes in both total triglyceride (r = .99, p less than .01) and cholesterol (r = .70, p less than .05). Treatment with PAS-C reduced the plasma triglyceride removal rate related to lipoprotein lipase (-14.6 +/- 14.1%, p less than .02), but did not alter plasma postheparin lipolytic activity or the apparent Km for substrate-enzyme interaction. Kinetic data obtained during the prolonged heparin infusion fit the linearized Michaelis-Menten model for subjects with endogenous hypertriglyceridemia. The reduction in the plasma triglyceride concentration during PAS-C treatment was a function of the decrease in triglyceride removal rate (r = .74, p less than .025) without alternation in the maximal removal capacity related to lipoprotein lipase. This suggests that under the steady state conditions of these studies, the decrease in plasma triglyceride concentration was due to a reduction in endogenous triglyceride production. Free fatty acid metabolism, glucose homeostasis, fat absorption, and thyroid function did not change. These results suggest that PAS-C lowers plasma triglyceride and cholesterol levels in hypertriglyceridemic subjects reducing endogenous very low density lipoprotein production and/or secretion into the circulation. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/717274/
Abstract: Analysis of data from Japan and Hawaii offers no support for the hypothesis that the use of talc-coated rice increases the risk of developing stomach cancer. This conclusion is based on the observation that Japanese in Japan have very high rates of stomach cancer but consume no talc-coated rice, that Japanese in Hawaii have intermediate rates of stomach cancer but consume considerable amounts of talc-coated rice, and that Filipinos in Hawaii have very low rates of gastric cancer but consume the highest amounts of talc-coated rice of these three groups. Furthermore, secular trends in gastric cancer incidence show a much greater decrease in the incidence of this tumor among the exposed Japanese in Hawaii than among the unexposed Japanese in Japan. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/717141/
Abstract: Some differences in the blood of farmers in Nurmijarvi, Finland, Canino, Italy, and Beltsville, Maryland in the United States apparently were associated with differences, among the areas, in the farmers' diets. Those associations suggested that diets that are high in saturated fats (Nurmijarvi) could predispose humans to develop intravascular disease. Such predisposition has been observed in experimental animals. Low levels of the parameters that are considered active in such predisposition apparently were associated with diets that were low in saturated fats (Canino) or with diets that were low in saturated and high in unsaturated fats (Beltsville). Within the limits of the experimental design, the data from the three population groups indicated that a more comprehensive study might establish a relation between diet and intravascular disease in humans. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/717261/
Abstract: The relative absorption of saccharides on different chain length has been reexamined. Whether glucose is administered as a monosaccharide, a disaccharide (maltose), an intermediate polysaccharide mixture with a mean chain length of five glucose units (Caloreen), or a polysaccharide (starch), the rate of rise and fall in blood glucose concentration is similar in healthy subjects. In a maturity onset diabetic, peak blood glucose is similar whether monosaccharide or Caloreen is ingested. Plasma insulin and plasma free fatty acid responses to glucose saccharide ingestion do not appear to be affected by chain length. The dietary form in which starch is administered, rather than chain length, is probably important. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/717270/
Abstract: The effect of experimental zinc depletion on the intestinal absorption of mono- and polyglutamyl folates was assessed in six healthy male subjects by measuring the increase in serum folate after an oral dose of pteroylmonoglutamate and pteroylheptaglutamate before and after initiation of a zinc-deficient diet. At the beginning of the study, no differences were detected in the absorption of pteroylmono- and heptaglutamate. After zinc depletion, the rise in serum folate after an oral dose of pteroylheptaglutamate was reduced by an average of 53% while pteroylmonoglutamate absorption appeared to be unchanged. These data suggest that zinc depletion results in a decreased intestinal hydrolysis of pteroylpolyglutamate and that intestinal conjugase in man is a zinc-dependent enzyme. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/717275/
Abstract: Eighty-six Japanese men out of 6860 male participants in a prospective study of cancer were married to women who had breast cancer. These 86 men were compared with the remaining men by dietary factors that were identified during two different time periods. Based on the assumption that there is a similarity between husbands and wives in their dietary patterns, it was noted that the spouses of women with breast cancer consumed more beef or meat, butter/margarine/cheese, corn, and wieners than the other men. Furthermore, the breast cancer spouses also consumed less Japanese foods than controls, even though there were minimal differences between the two groups in other Oriental practices. These results suggest that certain American foods are important in the search for possible dietary factors related to the occurrence of breast cancer in women. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/717280/
Abstract: The probabilities of low transferrin saturation, folic acid, or vitamin B12 levels in association with various erythrocyte indices was determined from the prevalences of these abnormalities and the distributions of the indices among 206 hospitalized and 1,000 ambulatory anemic patients. At mean corpuscular hemoglobin (MCH) greater than 30 pg, the probability of low transferrin saturation was 0.04 for hospitalized patients and 0.14 for ambulatory anemic patients. For MCH less than 27 pg, the corresponding probabilities were 0.52 and 0.67. The probabilities of low vitamin B12 or folic acid levels among hospitalized anemic patients were 0.0011 for mean corpuscular volume (MCV) less than 95 cu micron and 0.18 for MCV greater than or equal to 95 cu micron, indicating that measurements of these vitamins are of very limited value in most cases of anemia. These findings indicate that in some patients, the erythrocyte indices are sufficiently predictive for or against deficiency states to facilitate decisions regarding further diagnostic tests, as opposed to the increasing tendency to order such tests regardless of the indices. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/717291/
Abstract: Significant elevations in two glycine-conjugated serum bile acid levels (cholic and chenodeoxycholic) were detected in a majority of infants with intractable diarrhea of infancy. In contrast, children with chronic inflammatory bowel disease had values of serum bile acids within the normal range. Although intravenous alimentation and constant-infusion elemental diet may alter hepatic function, serum bile acid levels were also elevated in other infants with intractable diarrhea not treated by these methods. We hypothesize that endotoxemia or other unknown mechanisms together with therapy are exerting a detrimental effect on hepatic function. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/717305/
Abstract: One hundred eighty-five patients hospitalized for evaluation to thrive were reviewed retrospectively. Eighteen percent had proven organic etiologies. The specific organic diagnosis was strongly suggested by the history and physical examination in all of these patients. Fifty percent of the patients were failing to thrive on the basis of environmental deprivation. Only 1.4% of the laboratory studies performed were of positive diagnostic assistance. No study was of positive value without a specific indication from the clinical evaluation. The history and physical examination are the most valuable tools in the evaluation of failure to thrive. Laboratory investigations are rarely helpful without a specific indication from the clinical evaluation. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/717382/
Abstract: An illness characterized by recurrent episodes of small bowel obstruction is described. The patient, a 79-year old gentleman has been followed for 20 years. During this time he has hospitalized 19 times. Extensive investigation, including three exploratory laparotomies, have failed to show a cause of the bowel dysfunction. The clinical findings have been similar on each admission. Cramping abdominal pain, vomiting, obstipation often followed by diarrhea, tender distended abdomen, high pitched bowel sounds and abdominal x-rays revealed dilatation of small and large intestine and delayed gastric emptying on various admissions. The failure to demonstrate a recognized etiology for the repeated bowel obstruction over a long period of time warrants a clinical diagnosis of chronic idiopathic intestinal pseudo-obstruction (C.I.I.P.). The age of the patient at the onset of symptoms and the duration of the dysfunction prompted a review of the literature. Twenty-seven reported cases allowed a comparison of this case with the clinical features previously described. Symptomatic therapy, consisting of small bowel decompression by intestinal intubation during the acute episode, was followed by the use of elemental diets given slowly and continuously during the convalescing period. The patient continues to be comfortable and able to maintain his body weight between episodes which, however, seem to be increasing in frequency. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/717357/
Abstract: Malabsorption and diarrhea in hyperthyroidism has been attributed in part to an increased rate of gastrointestinal transit as measured with barium sulfate suspension. Data are unavailable on the effect of hyperthyroidism on gastric emptying rates of normal food and pancreatic enzyme secretion. These functions have been studied in 4 hyperthyroid patients and compared to results obtained when treatment achieved euthyroidism. Pancreatic trypsin secretion was half the euthyroid level in the hyperthyroid state. No significant change in bile salts occurred, although there was a tendency for a greater proportion of dihydroxy bile salts while hyperthyroid. Gastric emptying rates of a mixed fat, protein, and carbohydrate liquid meal were normal. Similarly the gastric emptying rate of a beef stew plus chicken liver meal was normal. We conclude that in hyperthyroidism gastric emptying rates of "physiologically active" food is normal. Pancreatic enzyme secretion is depressed in hyperthyroidism and may contribute to maldigestion. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/717358/
Abstract: The effect of caloric restriction on the hepatic uptake and excretion of indocyanine green (ICG) was studied in man as well as in rats. It was demonstrated that following a 72-hr caloric restriction in man, the plasma clearance rate for ICG was increased significantly at the low dose of 0.5 mg/kg, and transport maximum was increased without a significant change of storage capacity. In rats, the maximal biliary excretion was significantly increased after 48-hr fast, but neither maximal hepatic uptake (Vmax) nor hepatic ICG content was altered. The evidence is consistent with the view that fasting increases the ICG plasma clearance at low doses by enhancement of excretory steps at the bile canalicular membrane. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/717363/
Abstract: A case of recurrent duodenal ulcer, basal gastric hypersection, and hypergastrinemia of antral origin is presented. The diagnosis was suggested preoperatively by stimulation tests with secretin and food. Billroth II antrectomy led to normalization of serum gastrin within half an hour. The gastrin content of the antral mucosa was not increased, neither was antral G-cell hyperplasia demonstrable. Postoperatively the basal gastric acid output and fasting serum gastrin levels were normal, without a postprandial increase in serum gastrin concentrations. The case does not support the existence of a specific disease called antral G-cell hyperplasia. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/717453/
Abstract: Two hundred and fifty patients were examined because of a history of in utero exposure to diethylstilbestrol (DES) or because of the presence of physical findings suggesting such exposure. One thousand biopsies were examined for the presence of neoplasia and then compared to the colposcopic findings. There were no cases of glandular or squamous cell carcinoma. Fifteen (6 per cent) of the patients had squamous cell dysplasia. The degree of dysplasia was mild in 11 and moderate in only 4 (1.6 per cent) of the women. The majority of the cases of dysplasia involved the cervix, whereas the vagina was involved in only four cases, with simultaneous cervical dysplasia in three of these. Patients with cervical mosaic and white epithelium had dysplasia on biopsy much more frequently as compared with patients with similar colposcopic appearances in the vagina. Our results suggest a low incidence of significant squamous precancerous change in the DES-exposed population and provide evidence that colposcopic data concerning dysplasia pertinent to the cervix cannot be applied without modification to the evaluation of dysplasia in vaginal adenosis. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/717517/
Abstract: Eight children with corneal xerophthalmia (x2 or x3A) received standard high-protein diets and massive systemic vitamin A therapy. Retinoic acid, 0.1% in oil, was applied daily to one eye, and oil alone to the other. Topical retinoic acid proved safe and effective in speeding corneal healing, especially during the first critical days. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/717703/
Abstract: Among adult patients with bronchial asthma and/or allergic rhinitis undergoing allergological investigation with skin test, nasal provocation test and RAST, 1129 answered a questionaire regarding food sensitivity (FS). 276 (24%) of the patients reported some kind of allergic symptoms on eating or handling various foods, of which hazel nut, apple and shell fish were the most often named. Females reported FS more often than males. A correlation was found between birch pollen allergy and FS with nuts, apple, peach, cherry, pear, plum, carrot and new potato. The higher the degree of birch pollen allergy, according to skin test, RAST or provocation test, the higher the frequency of FS. A correlation was found too between acetylsalicylic acid intolerance and FS with some foods, e.g. nuts, strawberry, almond, green pepper, hip, chocolate, egg, cabbage, milk and wine. The connection between birch pollen allergy and FS is probably explained by the structural relationship between birch pollen allergen and some allergens of the foodstuffs, whereas the high incidence of FS in acetylsalicylic acid-intolerant patients is probably explained by additives in foods as well as salicylates or benzoates naturally occurring in some food. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/733540/
Abstract: The response of arterial pressure to an infusion of saralasin was compared to the effect of surgical correction of renal vascular lesions (3 to 6 months after surgery) in eleven patients whose hypertension was associated with uni or bilateral stenosis of renal artery. Saralasin was infused after four days of dietary sodium restriction (10--40 mEq/day). An excellent correlation (r = 0.83, p less than 0.005) between the effects of saralasin and surgery was obtained. There was no correlation between the response to saralasin or to surgery and the ratio of renal vein renin activities. It is suggested that saralasin may be a good tool for predicting the effect of surgery in renovascular hypertension, when infused in moderately sodium depleted patients. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/734026/
Abstract: Adrenocortical activity was studied in 19 emaciated women with anorexia nervosa. Relative to body size the patients' mean cortisol production rates of 0.591 mg/kg/day and 16.4 mg m2/day were significantly elevated compared to those of 0.322 mg/kg/day and 11.4 mg/m2/day for age and sex matched normal controls (p less than 0.001 and 0.02, respectively). The 24-hr mean plasma cortisol concentration in 18 patients was 10.6 microgram/dl and was significantly higher than that of the controls (6.8 microgram/dl, p less than 0.001). The average excretion of urinary free cortisol in nine patients was 205 microgram/day, significantly greater than that of 65 microgram/day in the controls (less than 0.01). Three patients underwent overnight suppression with 1 mg of dexamethasone and had inadequate responses. These data suggest that cortisol production is excessive in emaciated patients with anorexia nervosa due to a disturbance of the hypothalamic-pituitary mechanisms regulating adrenocortical function. The excessive adrenal activity may reflect certain psychobiological disturbances as well as the effects of malnutrition. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/734141/
Abstract: Socio-cultural factors play a contributory role in presentation and symptomatology of affective illness. Cultural shock, communication barriers, fear of loss of racial identity, different child rearing attitudes and dietary restrictions may all contribute towards the manifestation of reactive depression. An understanding of the immigrant's background will greatly help the therapist in management of his patient. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/734242/
Abstract: The postprandial plasma amino acid response to test meals containing different amino acid mixtures was analysed in six young adults. The amount of amino acids given in each test meal was equivalent with 3.5 g of nitrogen. Each test meal also contained a large amount of carbohydrate (mainly as wheat starch). Five different amino acid mixtures were used, and the effects on the plasma amino acid response of different dietary levels of lysine, isoleucine and methionine were studied in detail. The plasma amino acid responses were evaluated both by a modified Longenecker and Hause procedure (PAA ratios) and by the procedure proposed by Graham and Placko (percentage changes in the postprandial essential amino acid molar ratios). The plasma amino acid response of lysine was found to be less sensitive to reductions in the dietary supply than the isoleucine and methionine responses evaluated by these procedures. The influence of altered levels of dietary supply on the postprandial plasma concentrations of isoleucine and methionine seemed to be specifically great at the intake levels where these essential amino acids become limiting for protein utilization according to the amino acid score of the test mixtures. The nutritional significance of the postprandial pattern and level of essential amino acids is discussed on basis of the present results. Experimental conditions and evaluation models are examined with regard to the use of single-meal plasma amino acid responses to assess the protein quality of human diets. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/734431/
Abstract: The incidence of lactose intolerance was determined in 31 women with idiopathic postmenopausal osteoporosis. Nine subjects exhibited a pathological rise in blood glucose (less than 20 mg/100 ml) after receiving 50 g lactose. The absorption of glucose and galactose, xylose, and fat was normal in the 31 patients. Daily intake of calcium was below the normal range in 3 subjects with and in 6 subjects without lactose intolerance. The association between lactase deficiency and osteoporosis is stressed. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/734583/
Abstract: A close correlation was found between amniotic fluid volume measured by using para-aminohippuric acid and the clinical assessment of volume. No correlation was found between measured amniotic fluid volume and fetal weight, length, or weight for gestational age. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/734720/
Abstract: Serum and urinary RNase activity was determined in 15 normal children and in 52 children in various clinical stages of schistosomal hepatic fibrosis. The activity of serum RNase was compared with that of serum GOT, GPT and AP. The activity of serum and urinary RNase in the different schistosomal groups was significantly higher than in healthy children. The elevated levels of serum and urinary RNase activity were possibly due to malnutrition with tissue catabolism, zinc-deficiency and liver cell injury. Treatment with Astiban and protein-rich diet resulted in a significant decrease in serum and urinary RNase activity and an in significant drop in serum GOT, GPT and AP. Serum and urinary RNase appear to be more sensitive indices for evaluating the early metabolic disturbances in schistosomal patients than GOT, GPT or AP. Our findings also showed that the severity of cases could be graded according to the level of urinary RNase. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/734754/
Abstract: Results of a serologic survey for Toxoplasma gondii among 408 Ticuna Indians from five villages in western Brazil are presented and compared with the results of 61 non-Indian inhabitants of the town of Codajas, Amazonas. Indirect hemagglutination antibody titers greater than or equal to 64 were found in 39% of the Ticuna population as compared to 77% of the Codajas population. Prevalence rates of titers greater than or equal to 256 were 20.3% for Ticunas and 39.3% for Codajas. Prevalence rates of titers greater than or equal to 256 in Ticuna villages where dietary habits were most variable were higher and more similar to those of non-Indian populations than were the prevalence rates of this titer range in villages where the animal food source was predominantly fish. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/734764/
Abstract: Physical growth measurements from birth to 145 months in 5,743 urban Negro children in the Durban area have shown that the median weight of the youngest members is similar to or heavier than an international reference standard (Harvard), whereas older children are generally lighter. Length measurements up to 24 months are similar to the standard whereas older children are shorter. Head circumference is greater than international values at all ages measured. The prevalence of malnutrition, assessed by values less than the third Harvard centile for age, reached a peak incidence for height in the pre-school children and for weight in the older male school children. Decreases in height and weight in the Negro child probably reflect the damaging effects of an impoverished socio-economic environment on growth. The development of the young Negro child along reference centiles implies that such standards established in the 'developed world' are appropriate for assessment of adequate growth in South African Negro children of all ages. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/755281/
Abstract: Gastroesophageal sphincter pressure and serum gastrin concentration were determined in the fasting state and the intake of a protein food in 6 normal subjects, 6 patients with gastric ulcer, and in 6 patients with duodenal ulcer. No significant differences in the fasting state were found. After the food intake, gastroesophageal sphincter pressure increased significantly over basal values in normals and in patients with duodenal ulcer, but in patients with gastric ulcer a decrease in pressure was noted. Serum gastrin rose in all subjects studied after the food stimulation, but it was significant only in the gastric and duodenal ulcer group. In two normals and two patients with duodenal ulcer the ingestion of a potato meal similar in weight to the protein meal showed no change either in serum gastrin or in sphincter pressure. In one additional nromal and one duodenal ulcer, the constant intravenous infusion of Aminosol during 2 hours produced no change in serum gastrin or sphincter pressure. These results indicate that the effect of protein food on sphincter pressure is different for gastric or duodenal ulcers; furthermore, that this effect is mediated by proteins in the gastrointestinal tract. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/755272/
Abstract: Twelve healthy young men added bran 15 g twice daily to their diet and underwent aspiration of bile-rich duodenal contents at 0, 1, 2, 4 and 6 weeks. In the 6-week sample, but not earlier, there was a significant decrease in deoxycholate and increase in chenodeoxycholate. Bile was unsaturated with cholesterol at the beginning and remained so throughout. The delay in the action of bran may be because it reduces the formation of deoxycholate in the colon and does not merely impede its absorption. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/755869/
Abstract: Self-monitoring combined with contingency contracting resulted in weight loss, modification of dysfunctional eating habits, and increased or sustained exercise rates for two obese, mentally retarded adolescent females with Prader-Willi syndrome. Contingency contracting between clients and their parents/caregivers was used to specify consequences for daily self-monitoring, reduced caloric intake, weight loss, and exercise. Punishment for food stealing was also employed. Results suggest that contingency contracting is an effective technique for producing long-term weight loss in obese mentally retarded adolescents. Further, these techniques offer an alternative to the clinician considering solely dietary restriction or surgical intervention. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/755680/
Abstract: The effect of undernutrition on the activity of glutamate decarboxylase (GAD) and choline acetyltransferase (ChAc) (markers for the GABA-ergic and the cholinergic transmitter system, respectively) was studied in various parts of the rat brain at the age of 10, 15 and 21 days, and at day 54 following 33 days of rehabilitation. The brain regions investigated were the olfactory bulbs, cerebellum, pons-medulla, hypothalamus, colliculi, cerebral cortex hippocampus and the residual brain. Undernutrition resulted in a marked retardation of the developmental rise of the activities of both enzymes, expressed in terms of either total brain part or unit weight or protein. The effect diminished with age even during the period of nutritional deprivation. In most brain regions the enzyme activities were restored to normal after rehabilitation. In the cerebral cortex the total activity of both enzymes was persistently reduced, although the concentration of GAD exceeded the control levels. A negative correlation was manifested between the activities of GAD and ChAc in the different brain parts (except the cerebellum) during development. The correlation became significant by day 21 in the controls, but only after postweaning rehabilitation of the undernourished rats. The results showed therefore that undernutrition caused a reversible retardation in the development of these two transmitter enzymes, and they suggested that even the balance of the GABA-ergic and cholinergic systems throughout the brain can be restored to normal by rehabilitation. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/755538/
Abstract: Fifty patients stricken by giardiosis were treated by a single dose administration of Tinidazole -- 50 mg./kg. for children and 2 g. for adults per os. Fifteen days after treatment, 84 0/0 of the patients had negative coprologic exams for giardiosis. The product was well-tolerated by the digestive tract as was demonstrated by a coprologic examination for digested food reside; however, minor digestive inconveniences were noted in 87 0/0 of the patients. There were no perturbations of hematologic or hepatic tests. This product would thus appear to be a treatment of choice in the management of giardiosis. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/755847/
Abstract: A study of endemic goitre was carried out in the western part of the province of Foggia (Daunia's pre-Appennines). About 50% of a total of 2719 children aged 6-15 years examined in the agricultural and hill towns of Accadia, Bovino, Candela, Deliceto and Sant'Agata di Puglia (500 to 800 m above sea level), presented a thyroid enlargement (usually of Grade 1). Urinary creatinine values were normal, while urinary iodine was low: 37.7 +/- 28.39 mug/g creatinine (mean +/- SD for 319 subjects). Serum levels of thyroid hormones were normal: T4 = 7.89 +/- 2.61 mug/dl; T3 = 114.72 +/- 40 ng/dl; T3 (T4 X 100) = 0.166 +/- 0.09. Subjects with Grade 2 thyroid enlargement had significant lower urinary iodine and serum T4, and higher T3 and T3/T4 ratio than children without goitre (Grade 0). Serum thyrotropin was rather high (3.79 +/- 4.17 muU/ml), but bore no straight relation to the thyroid size; in subjects with Grade 2 thyroids there was an inverse relationship between plasma T4 and TSH levels. Drinking water iodine was generally low (2-3 mug/l), though some richer sources (18, 38, 66 mug/l) were noted. Iodine contents of locally produced foodstuffs were below those found in food on Turin markets. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/756156/
Abstract: For different reasons urban areas are colonized by numerous animal groups. From the aspect of the incidence of zoonoses the following animal groups are primarily significant: 1) food-producing animals; 2) pets; 3) synanthropic mammals; 4) synanthropic birds; 5) synanthropic arthropods. Certain species live in central parts of urban areas which the A. attempts to classify, and particularly in suburban areas which serve for recreation of town inhabitants. From the aspect of the occurrence of different animal species the A. points out the significance of various parts of urban agglomerations. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/756160/
Abstract: The present situation regarding chemical residues in food products of animal origin is discussed. Some suggestions are given for sanitary judgement of such products and for preventive actions to be taken by the veterinary services. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/756159/
Abstract: Practically all today's raw agricultural products have been treated or exposed to one or more agricultural chemicals or veterinary products, in order to increase food production. A tremendous amount of work has been done by veterinarians in coping with diseases and health risks due to microorganisms, parasites and other agents of biological origin. There is no doubt that veterinary services, research and educational institutions have a long and successful tradition also in dealing with problems of chemicals associated with animal and food production, processing, transportation, storage and distribution. Due to the increasing quantity and large numbers of chemicals now used in animal production and related fields, it has however become indispensable to broaden and intensify the education and training of veterinarians, as well as to ensure their participation in all sectors of this field. Veterinarians should be fully involved in the surveillance, prevention and control of intoxications by chemical residues. They are well qualified to do this. They are working continuously in the areas where exposure to animals and food may occur, possess adequate knowledge of the routes of entry of such chemicals into food chains, the fate of their residues, the health hazards involved, as well as of the toxicology, pathology, pathophysiology, and food hygiene and technology. Residues present an enormous challenge for surveillance, prevention and control in agriculture, food processing and related activities. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/756395/
Abstract: In an effort to obtain quantitative and qualitative information regarding the extent of disability sustained following definitive treatment for head and neck cancer, 51 patients--28 who had had laryngectomy and 23 who had had other major surgery--were interviewed. Also examined were the types of rehabilitation measures taken. In all cases, the following areas in which disability could occur were identified and explored: physical appearance, speech, deglutition, mastication, salivation, sensory deficits, cranial motor-nerve deficits, pain, nutrition, activities of daily living, psychosocial functioning, vocational status, environmental parameters, and delayed complications. Where appropriate, ratings and delineations of severity were compiled. Nine methods of rehabilitation were assessed with regard to frequency of utilization: surgical reconstruction, dental-maxillofacial prosthetics, speech therapy, physical therapy, rehabilitation nursing, occupational therapy, vocational rehabilitation, rehabilitation counseling, and social service. Our conclusions were that half of the patients studied had sustained significant disability in three to four areas, while 43% had moderate or severe disability in five to nine areas. Additionally, the head and neck surgeon was found to have used surgical reconstruction and dental-maxillofacial prosthetic measures, as well as the services of seven categories of allied health professionals, to provide rehabilitation. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/756444/
Abstract: Recently in Japan, it has been observed that the physical dimensions of schoolboys and schoolgirls, specifically stature and body weight, are increasing year by year, and that spurts in increase in dimensions tend to happen earlier. The phenomena of accelerated growth are resulting in more obesity and leanness in childhood. Skinfold thickness, body density, body fat and lean body mass estimated from body density, creatinine excretion in the 24-hour urine, and muscular volume calculated from creatinine excretion were studied in obese children and normal children of 10 and 11 years of age, and the difference in the skinfold thickness by sec, age, and district in school children in five districts in southern Kyushu (1,002 boys and 931 girls) were examined. Reference was then made to the skinfold thickness of some of experienced and new sumo wrestlers of the Japan Professional Sumo Association whose nutrition intake is high and who show high ratios of diabetes mellitus and cardiac diseases. The results of the present study were also compared with the results of skinfold thickness measurements of children in Ghana and Kenya and those of the skinfold thickness and body composition measurements of Czechoslovakian children. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/756476/
Abstract: This report presents the design and initial findings of an attempt to reduce the risk of coronary heart disease in healthy men by modifying their type A behavior pattern. A group of 27 professional and executive volunteers, aged 39--59, who had been medically assessed as free from coronary heart disease, were randomly assigned to brief psychotherapy and behavior therapy groups. Each treatment group met for 14 sessions over a period of 5 months. Pre- and postmeasures of physiological (serum cholesterol, serum triglycerides, blood pressure) and psychological (anxiety, psychological symptoms, satisfaction) variables were taken. Results indicate that both treatment groups changed in the desired direction on most of the psychological and physiological variables without apparent change in habits of diet, exercise, smoking, or work load. The findings are provocative, but only tentative, leaving questions of clinical validity, durability, and generalizability unresolved. Nevertheless, they indicate that this approach to modifying type A behavior may reduce coronary risk and therefore warrants further exploration. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/756473/
Abstract: A field experiment was designed to test the effects on weight change in obese children of (1) communications varying in threat and (2) health beliefs of the child's mother, in terms of perceived vulnerability to health threats, the efficacy of taking actions, and barriers to acting. Treatments involved messages containing more or less threatening material regarding obesity, plus a control (no communication) condition. Beliefs were assessed by means of personal interviews. All mothers and children received dietary counseling and were scheduled for four follow-up visits, which included weighing. The 182 participants were from low-income areas served by a large hospital pediatric clinic. High-threat messages yielded the most consistent weight loss, followed by low threat and control. In addition, both general beliefs concerning health and specific beliefs about obesity and dieting predicted weight loss. Both messages and mothers' beliefs acted together on keeping appointments and making efforts to comply. Results are discussed in terms of the effects of threats and health belief-behavior linkages. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/842529/
Abstract: In 50 duodenal ulcer patients acid and gastrin secretory responses were determined in the fasting state and after insulin hypoglycemia. Completeness of vagotomy was assessed by multiple criteria. In all three groups of patients studied, i.e., the unoperated, the incomplete and the complete vagotomy groups, and initial gastrin inhibition was observed, the inhibition being minimal, moderate, adn exaggerated, respectively. This inhibitory phase was followed by a significant rise in gastrin the unoperated and the incomplete vagotomy groups, the rise being significantly higher in the latter. This rise was insignificant in those with complete vagotomy. The evidence suggests the presence of both an inhibitory and a releasing mechanism for gastrin release. The ratio of basal serum gastrin to postinsulin gastrin separates complete and incomplete vagotomy without overlap. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/842488/
Abstract: Conflicting reports regarding the possible effect of oral contraceptives agents (OCA's) on folate status prompted us to evaluate the relationship between dietary folate intake and the concentration of folate in serum and erythrocytes among users and nonsuers of OCA's during two consecutive menstrual cycles. Twenty-two women (ages 19 to 28) had been on combination type OCA's for 4 months or more and a control group of 18 women (ages 18 to 29) had not used OCA's for at least 6 months prior to this study. The serum folate levels were lower in the OCA users than in the controls and the difference was statistically significant on day 5 of the menstrual cycle (P less t-an 0.05) but not on day 20. However, the differences in the erythrocyte folate levels and dietary folate intakes were not statistically significant between the two groups of subjects. There was a consistently higher degree of correlation between serum folate and folate intake among the control women than among the OCA users. Hematological parameters such as hemoglobin, hematocrit, mean corpuscular volume, mean corpusclar hemoglobin, mean corpuscular hemoglobin concentration and red cell count were similar in the two groups. It is concluded that the use of OCA's produces significantly lower serum folate levels during the first week of the menstrual cycle in spite of adequate folate intake. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/842509/
Abstract: Approximately 4,000 preschool black children from low-income families in South Memphis participated for three years in a supplementary food program sponsored by the US Department of Agriculture. Part of this group received additional benefit from food stamps, day-care centers, and an infant-feeding program. We evaluated the effects of this participation in 250 children selected randomly from the enrollment list of the supplemetary program. Each child was examined for height, weight, head circumference, and levels of hemoglobin, serum iron, and vitamins A and C. The data were then compared with those from a similar survey in the same area conducted three years before. The results of this comparison indicate considerable improvements in height and weight and a reduction in the incidence of anemia and in the numbers of children with low plasma vitamin A levels. In the absence of other recognizable intervening factors, we conclude that federal food assistance programs were primarily responsible for the observed nutritional improvements. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/842491/
Abstract: The influence of low carbohydrate (CHO) diets, starvation, and high CHO diets on glucose tolerance tests (GTT) and plasma insulin response of men with chemical diabetes was studied. The GTT and insulin responses of these seven lean diabetic men were unchanged when the carbohydrate content of the diet was reduced from 44 to 20% of calories. After a 48-hr fast a significant deterioration of the GTT was observed in these diabetic men but the percentage change was identical to that reported previously for normal men. Thus these studies indicate that changes in glucose mtes are quite similar to those reported previously for normal men. The fasting plasma glucose values of seven lean and four obese men with chemical diabetes were significantly lower after one week on a 75% CHO diet than values on a 44% CHO diet. The 75% CHO diet also was accompanied by slight improvements in the oral and intravenous GTT and by slightly lower plasma insulin responses. The improvement in glucose metabolism on high CHO diets appears to results from increased insulin sensitivity. Serum triglyceride values were approximately 55% higher on the 75% CHO diet than values on the 44% CHO diet for the 11 men but these differences were not statistically significant. These studies support previous observations and suggest that high CHO diets may be beneficial in the management of certain diabetic patients. However, further studies are required to determine the long-term effects of high CHO diets containing natural foods on the glucose and lipid metabolism of diabetic patients. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/842490/
Abstract: Various loads of simple carbohydrates were fed to 148 patients with known coronary-artery disease (CAD) for 4 days in the Clinical Research Center. The 148 patients were grouped according to the diet regimen tested-sucrose (low and high), glucose, and fructose. A high-sucrose diet was fed to 29 control subjects. Diets containing 2 g of simple carbohydrate (predominantly either sucrose or glucose) per kilogram of body weight per day had no significant effect on fasting plasma glucose, serum triglycerides, or serum free fatty acids. However, diets containing 4 g of simple carbohydrate (predominantly sucrose) or 2 g fructose per kilogram of body weight per day produced a significant rise in serum triglycerides with decreases in fasting plasma glucose and free fatty acids. Serum cholesterol diminished in all the diet groups, probably because of the decrease fat and cholesterol intakes. The increase of serum triglycerides in CAD patients receiving simple carbohydrate at the 4-g/kg rate was significantly greater than in the normal control subjects fed the same diet, suggesting a sensitivity of CAD patients to this stimulus. No significant correlation could be demonstrated between changes in serum triglycerides and the extent of CAD (one, two, or three vessels) as determined from coronary angiograms. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/842494/
Abstract: A study of the nutritional vitamin status of older women included 46 patients in nursing homes and 24 residents of private homes. The age range was 62 through 99 years. Calculated values for the mean daily caloric and vitamin intakes indicated that vitamin A and thiamin were the vitamins that compared less favorably with the Recommended Dietary Allowances. Values for vitamin A and C in sera and for thiamin, riboflavin, and N-methyl nicotinamide excretion were compared with standards of adequacy, Vitamin A values in sera of 14% of all subjects were "deficient" or "low". All serum ascorbic acid levels were "acceptable". Thiamin and riboflavin concentrations in urine of 17 and 15% of the subjects, respectively, were "deficient" or "low". Except for one subject, all N-methyl nicotamide values were "acceptable". In general, values for caloric and vitamin intakes and for corresponding levels of vitamins in sera or urine of patients in nursing homes did not differ significantly from analogous values obtained for subjects in private homes. The effect of age and income and education level are discussed. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/842760/
Abstract: The nutritional status of three and four year old children, as measured by height and head circumference, is related to cognitive performance in four rural Guatemalan villages. The relationships persist when social factors are taken into account. Families in two of the villages participate in a voluntary, high protein-calorie supplementation program. In the other two villages, the families receive a vitamin and mineral supplement with one-third of the calories. Although the longitudinal study still is ongoing there is some evidence that the children who receive the higher calorie supplement (or whose mothers received it during pregnancy and lactation) are most likely to score high in cognitive performance. The results support other animal and human studies that report an association between nutrition and cognitive development. The findings, while not diminishing social environmental explantions of differences in cognitive function, suggest the worth of nutrition intervention programs in rural areas of lesser-developed countries. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/842784/
Abstract: A 9-year-old boy in Teheran, Iran developed severe asthmatic symptoms, productive cough, and moderate eosinophilia. Lung biopsy demonstrated a helminth in a granulomatous lesion with foreign-body type cellular reaction leading to a tentative diagnosis of visceral larva migrans. Diethylcarbamazine, thiabendazole, and steroids were given, rapidly relieving the symptoms. In a subsequent review of the biopsy the helminth was identified as a Capillaria, probably Capillaria (Thominx) aerophila, a nematode parasite of dogs, cats, and other carnivores, apparently the ninth such infection to be reported in man. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/842907/
Abstract: Tartrazine (FD&C Yellow No. 5) and other allowed certified color additives may have an exacerbating effect in chronic urticaria and asthma sufferers. In the individual patient the only way to determine their relevance is to administer test doses. By altering doses, timing and substances and by interspacing controls a battery of tests has been developed. Methods of testing for sensitization to food additives and analgesics are described. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/842973/
Abstract: A child with recurrent infections is presented. The frequent diarrhea leads to a severe malnutrition. The immunological work-up disclosed: absent IgA and low IgG serum levels, deficient cellular immunity and abnormal neutrophil chemotaxis. The cellular immunity and the neutrophil chemotaxis were improved with the nutritional status. At present the patient shows a partial combined immunodeficiency. The diagnosis of the case as a Nezelof's syndrome is discussed, as well as the addition of a secondary immunodeficiency caused by the recurrent infections and the malnutrition. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/843044/
Abstract: A follow-up study of 34 cases shows that scoliosis after termination of vertebral growth is commonly a progressive condition. In the increase of scoliosis disc degeneration is the most important single factor. Further increase may result from lateral subluxation of the vertebra. Once disc degeneration is initiated further increase is inevitable. The results of the study also suggest that change in the disc is possibly more closely related to the nutritional and metabolic condition of the individual than to any other factor. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/843047/
Abstract: The hypothesis that peptic ulcer is a manifestation of a generalized metabolic disorder caused by excess dietary fat intake is supported by the results in a series of 134 patients with proven gastric or duodenal ulcer treated with a simple 'fat-free' diet, together with pyloroplasty in 82 cases and simple suture of a perforated ulcer in 16. Relief of symptoms and healing of the ulcer resulted in the great majority of cases so long as the diet was strictly adhered to, and there have been no side effects or morbidity. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/843406/
Abstract: As a preliminary comunication, the authors report a somatometric study carried out in 315 full term newborns from different socioeconomic situation; 152 were born at the Hospital General, S.S.A. and 163, in a private hospital where middle and high class families are attended. The information is grouped on whether measurements are related to physical growth, th state of nutrition or to physical development. Several conditions which necessarily must be taken as independent variables in a study of this sort, such as the age of the parents, but specially of the mother, the period of gestation and of course, the socioeconomic level, were analyzed. The finding of up to 17% of case with height under 47 cm. and/or weight under 2,500 g., outstands the necessity to study the homeorrhesis phenomenon as a very important detail in this type of material. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/843411/
Abstract: The results obtained in a group of 12 obese adolescents are reported. They were managed following a motivational system called economy of coupons with the purpose of obtaining a drop in the overweight they showed. The study was divided into three stages: A, B and C. Only stage B included the experimental variable (economy of coupons). The patients kept a notebook with daily records of weight, diet and physical exercise to be evaluated by the research workers. If they reached the goals set for them, they were given strengthening stimuli to support such activity. From the analysis of the group for the body weight and its statistic comparison, it was found that in the A - B interaction, the "p" level was significant in the weight loss. In the B - C interaction, the value for "p" was less than 0.05 in relation to the ponderal increment and in A - C interaction, there was no significance. From this study, the evidence showed that results of A - C interaction were poor and therefore, rehabilitation was not obtained. From the above results, the inclusion of a fourth stage is suggested for further studies where the application of economy of coupons would gradually disappear until a desired behavior is maintained. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/843147/
Abstract: Hemodynamics and plasma renin activity were measured in 20 ambulatory hospital inpatients with untreated mild to moderate essential hypertension. The control measurements were made after a period of four to seven days just on a diet containing 10 mEq sodium per day. The measurements were repeated following a week of oral propranolol hydrochloride therapy plus the low salt diet. Heart rate (P less than .001), mean arterial pressure (P less than .001), cardiac output (P less than .05), and plasma renin activity (P less than .05) were reduced in the majority of these patients following propranolol therapy but stroke volume increased (P less than .05). Corrected ejection time and total peripheral resistance did not show significant change. The antihypertensive effect of propranolol could not be related to its hyporeninemic effect or to the fall in cardiac output. Under the experimental conditions of this study, no single parameter, either hemodynamic or plasma renin activity, was predictive of a definite antihypertensive response to propranolol therapy. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/843403/
Abstract: The author reports the case of a 10 years old female child with history of retrocecal appendicular abscess complicated with terminal ileum and right colon necroses which called for partial ileocoletomy. Following this operation, the patient presented diarrhea which caused a loss in weight of 6 kgs. in two months. Antiacids and diphenoxylate were given with negative results. A low fat diet was then given and the patient recovered 1 kg. in weight, but the diarrhea persisted with high excretion of fats. Thereupon, cholestyramine and a normal diet were given followed, within the next 48 hours, by a remission of the diarrhea; the weight loss was recovered within the next 3 months. At present, the patient is still taking very small doses of cholestyramine with a normal diet. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/843405/
Abstract: Considerin recent advances in nutrition somatometry the authors set forth the necessity to bring up to date Gomex's classification with the idea to incorporate other parameters, besides weight, in its application. To this respect, they propose the use of standard deviation as unity to measure the differences between actual values and those taken as reference patterns. Such system offers the advantage to make applicable to all ages the classification mentioned and to obtain an easier and more realistic somatometric comparison among different groups. Other considerations are made on the use of Gomez's classification and examples are set to base their propositions with data from a somatometric inquest. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/843457/
Abstract: A case with encapsulated Tricophyton violaceum abscesses in the skin is recorded. Defective cell mediated immunity was shown in the patient and his two cousins. This defect combined with malnutrition, hypoadrenalism and griseofulvin resistance gave unusual lesions and chronicity. A probable genetic factor for the defective cell mediated immunity is postulated. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/843795/
Abstract: Nutritional-pharmacological interactions were studied in a group of malnourished subjects. Antipyrine was used to evaluate mixed-function oxidase in man. The results indicated that the rate of disappearance of antipyrine from plasma was strongly influenced by the nutritional status of the individual. The half life of antipyrine was modified in undernourished subjects and those with nutritional oedema. This finding indicates that drug regimens may have to be adjusted in patients who have antipyrine half lives that are shorter or longer than normal. Otherwise drug treatment may be inadequate or, in patients with impaired microsomal enzyme activity, potentially dangerous. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/843181/
Abstract: Only recently have multiple-drug use studies involving more than heroin and marijuana begun to be reported in the literature. Four of these studies have found evidence that multiple-drug use is a progressive phenomenon, although the particular pattern of multiple-drug use reported in different populations varies somewhat. This study examines the patterns of multiple-drug use reported by a random sample of 1,094 high school students living in greater New Haven, Conn in the 1972-1973 academic school year. Scalogram analysis reveals a progressive relationship for nine drugs: alcohol, marijuana, hashish, barbiturates, amphetamines, LSD, mescaline, cocaine, and heroin. Cigarettes and glue were not found to play a part in this pattern. The temporal order in which respondents reported that they had begun using each drug supports the results of scalogram analysis only in part. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/843911/
Abstract: In 35-day-old rats which were undernourished by quantitative restriction of the mother's diet from the 6th day of gestation, the wet weight and the DNA content of the cerebellum were slightly more decreased than those of the cerebrum. Cell growth (estimated from the DNA concentration and form the ratios of RNA and protein to DNA) was significantly affected by food deprivation only in the cerebellum. In the cerebullar cortex, the number of Purkinje, Golgi and stellate cells were unchanged. The numbers of other cell tyes were affected to various extents: there were significantly less granules and basket cells per Purkinje cell, and a still more marked hypoplasia of glia involving the glial cells of the molecular layer, as well as the astrocytes of the internal granular layer and the Bergmann cells of the Purkinje cell layer. Finally, the total number of glial cells within the cortex was decreased by 44% against 13% for neurones. These effects of undernutrition on cell acquisition within the brain, and on the cellular composition of the cerebellum, contrast with those of thyroid deficiency. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/843973/
Abstract: The bone mineral content was measured by gamma absorptiometry in patients who had sustained fractures of the upper limb. Measurements were taken on the shafts of the forearm and in the trabecular bone immediately proximal to the wrist. Fractures of the surgical neck of the humerus and fractures of the shaft of the humerus did not significantly influence the bone mineral content of the ipsilateral forearm. Fracture of the radius and the ulna, however, caused a 15% loss of the bone mineral content in the trabecular bone proximal to the wrist, whereas the mineral content on the shafts of the fractured forearms increased or decreased depending on the fracture site. The findings suggest that measurements of bone mineral content of the forearm are not necessarily invalidated if there has been a fracture of the same limb. Only if the forearm itself is fractured should measurements on this site be avoided. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/859133/
Abstract: The writers describe a painful and transient spasm of the lower esophageal sphincter. Clinically, it is a matter of total aphagia, which is painful and prolonged, and occurs during eating; it always responds to medical treatment (rehydratation and antispasmodics), and it does not exceed 48 hours. An X-ray examination is both essential and characteristic: it visualizes the spasm of the lower esophageal sphincter in its full extent, the food gap, the sideration of the thoracic esophagus, and the disappearance of the air pocket. A perfect understanding of these clinical and and radiological signs enables a recognition of the functional nature of this medically curable condition, and thus aids patients of all ages to avoid an unecessary surgical operation. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/858966/
Abstract: Five young, mildly obese females consumed a formula diet providing total calories at 1.2 X basal energy expenditure and egg white protein, 1.5 gm./kg. ideal body weight (IBW), for 1 week (period 1). During period 2, lasting 3 weeks, a protein-sparing modified fast (PSMF) consisted of similar amounts of egg white without nonprotein calories followed by a 1-week total fast (period 3). In the final period (4), a PSMF with the use of meat protein, 1.5 gm./kg. IBW, alone was given for 1 week. Nitrogen balance (Nbal) measurements were made in all periods, and periods 2, 3, and 4 were compared with period 1. No significant difference existed between period 1 and period 2, although Nbal improved weekly during period 2. Nitrogen excretion in period 3 was similar to that found after 3 weeks of total fasting and was significantly negative, whereas positive balances occurred in period 4 with both periods being significantly different from period 1. Thus nitrogen equilibrium in the PSMF can be achieved with the use of protein free from fat, confirming earlier experience with meat protein. The metabolic adaption which occurs during toal fasting and results in reduced nitrogen loss develops in the course of PSMF. After a deficit in lean body mass is produced, net protein anabolism can be achieved by a PSMF despite insufficinet dietary energy. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/859070/
Abstract: Amniotic fluid infections were the most common cause of perinatal death in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia (21.8/1,000 live births). Most such infections appear to originate in the fetal membranes near the cervical os. The high rate of spread of these local infections into the amniotic fluid in Addis Ababa appears related to a lack of antimicrobial activity in amniotic fluids. Factors that adversely affected nutrition in the gravid woman, lack of prenatal medical care, and low water usage were associated with the high rate of fatal infections. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/860026/
Abstract: Radiological-histological studies showed that the normal mucosal units of the colon are bounded by the innominate lines. The lines are superficial identations of the mucosa with depths of 0.23 mm. No histological difference was demonstrated according to the three radiographic types found. These lines are demonstrable in about 90% of double-contrast examinations using 60-70% w/v barium. The colon should be prepared with dietary restriction, magnesium citrate, and contact laxative under sufficient hydration. The lines can also be demonstrated at endoscopy with dye scattering. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/860632/
Abstract: Male rats of 150 g body weight were given restricted amounts of their normal diet up to the age of 85 weeks, such that they showed no significant change in body weight. They were then rehabilitated by allowing them unlimited access to the normal diet. During rehabilitation, the experimental rats reached a maximum body weight that was only 70% of that normally attained. Body length, however, exhibited better recovery, the experimental animals achieving 96% of the normal body length. The skeleton continued to grow during the first 7 weeks of undernutrition, but thereafter only the caudal half of the pelvic girdle continued to grow. On rehabilitation all skeletal dimensions increased, and all eventually reached the normal range of mature skeletal dimensions. Although the pelvic girdle returned to a normal size, it still manifested some alterations in shape. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/8743510/
Abstract: A hypothesis is proposed that the aberrant response of the tubuloglomerular feedback to salt load is the abnormality in the kidney in the genesis of essential hypertension. This thesis is based upon the following facts on the kidney, salt and hypertension. To effectively achieve the primary function of the kidney, that is, to maintain the milieu interieur or the extracellular fluids, the kidney must maintain a high glomerular filtration rate (GFR) and almost a complete tubular reabsorption in the face of limited salt intake or low ECF volume and in the face of changes in systemic blood pressure. Autoregulation of renal blood flow and GFR is therefore critical. In addition to myogenic responses in the resistant afferent artery, the juxtaglomerular apparatus (JGA) plays a crucial role in the autoregulation of renal plasma flow and GFR through tubuloglomerular feedback (TGF). That the JGA and TGF have appeared first in amphibian species in evolution suggests that the transition from aquatic sea life, where salt is always in excess to terrestrial life, required this particular structure and function of the kidney. Salt intake in the natural environments on land is very limited, and chronic excess salt intake is a habit peculiar to humans in recent culture or civilization. Thus, it is hypothesized that through evolution the TGF is primarily set to maintain high GFR in the face of low salt intake. We propose that aberrant TGF responses to salt loading may underlie the genesis of essential hypertension in humans. Indeed, hypertension is not seen in human cultures that ingest a very low salt intake. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/8743497/
Abstract: The Modification of Diet in Renal Disease (MDRD) Study examined the effect of two interventions, reduction of dietary protein and control of blood pressure below the usual recommended level, on the progression of chronic renal disease. Patients in Study A (N = 585), GFR of 25 to 55 ml/min, were randomized to a group following a usual or low protein diet (1.3 or 0.58 g/kg body wt/day) and maintained at a usual (107 mm Hg) or low (92 mm Hg) mean arterial pressure. Patients in Study B (N = 255), GFR 13 to 24 ml/min, were randomized to a group following a low protein diet or a very low protein diet (0.28 g/kg body wt/day supplemented with a mixture of keto acids and amino acids), and maintained at a usual or low blood pressure level. During the first four months of follow-up in Study A, GFR declined at a faster rate in patients assigned a low protein diet or low blood pressure goal. The "terminal" GFR slope (measured from the fourth month of follow-up and projected to 3 years of follow-up) was 28% less, as a mean, in patients in the low protein group versus those on the usual protein diet (P = 0.009). Also, the low blood pressure group showed a significantly (P = 0.006) slower progression of renal disease (29%) than the usual blood pressure group. The effects of low blood pressure on the GFR decline were significantly related to the level of proteinuria during the baseline period. The results of Study B strongly suggest beneficial effects of the very low protein diet on renal function in patients with a GFR less than 25 ml/min. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/8743495/
Abstract: Experimental studies incriminate glomerular hypertension in mediating progressive renal damage after any of a variety of initiating injuries. Prevention of glomerular hypertension by dietary protein restriction or antihypertensive therapy lessens progressive glomerular damage in several experimental models of chronic renal disease. Glomerular hypertension and hyperfiltration also occur in humans with diabetes mellitus, solitary or remnant kidneys, and various forms of acquired renal disease. Clinical studies indicate that dietary protein restriction and antihypertensive therapy also slow progression in many of these disorders. Large multicenter trials confirm the beneficial effects of these therapeutic maneuvers on the rate of progression of chronic renal disease. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/8743441/
Abstract: We determined the urinary 1-hydroxypyrene (1-HP) concentration and the creatinine-adjusted 1-HP concentration in 644 randomly selected Dutch children, aged 1-6 years and living in five areas with roughly different levels of polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) in soil and ambient air. The presence of other factors that might influence the exposure to PAHs was studied using a questionnaire. To evaluate the reliability of a single urinary 1-HP determination, measurements were repeated after 3 weeks for approximately 200 children. The mean urinary 1-HP content of the total study population was 2.06 nmol/l. This varied from 1.58 nmol/l in the reference area (Flevoland) to 2.71 nmol/l in the valley of the Geul. Only indoor sources of PAHs showed a small, positive association with urinary 1-HP. The urinary 1-HP concentrations of children from the valley of the Geul were higher (p < 0.01) and those of children from a suburb of Amsterdam were lower (p < 0.01) than those of children from the reference area. The possible ambient environment-related differences were probably too small to be detected in the variations of the intake of PAHs from the daily diet. The reliability of a single 1-HP measurement was low. Similar results were obtained with the creatinine-adjusted data. In one neighborhood built on coal-mine tailings, the urinary 1-HP content in children was weakly but positively associated with the PAH content in the upper soil layer of the garden of their homes. However, this association was not found for the children from the other neighborhood built on coal-mine tailings and with similar PAH levels in soil. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/8743515/
Abstract: The effect of arterial hypertension on the progression of chronic renal failure (CRF) was evaluated in 108 patients who eventually required dialysis in the 8 year period of the study. Patients' average serum creatinine (SCr) concentration at first examination was 239.7 +/- 45.3 mumol/liter and at the start of dialysis was 1,661.0 +/- 181.9 mumol/liter. The mean duration of pre-dialysis follow-up was 53.7 +/- 15.7 months. The mean monthly increase in SCr was 18.8 +/- 13.4 and 2.1 +/- 1.4 mumol/liter/month in hypertensive and normotensive CRF patients, respectively (P < 0.001). The CRF patients with a diastolic blood pressure (BP) < 89 mm Hg had a significantly (P < 0.05) slower rate of decline in renal function than the patients with a diastolic BP > or = 90 mm Hg. There was a significant relationship between a mean diastolic BP > or = 90 mm Hg and the rate of monthly increase in SCr (r = 0.81, P < 0.001). These data indicate that control of diastolic BP in CRF patients is a potentially effective way to slow the rate of decline in renal function. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/8743838/
Abstract: The influence of dietary intake on serum zinc in 44 pregnant women in the third trimester of pregnancy and 10 healthy controls were studied. For assessment of the dietary intake 5-d record were used. Zinc in serum was analysed by flame AAS. Dietary zinc intake below the RDA was recorded in both groups studied (pregnant and nonpregnant women). Serum zinc in 42.8% of the pregnant women was below the cut off value. Only 1 of the nonpregnant women was with low serum zinc. For comparing serum zinc of both groups add ratio of 9.56 was calculated. Zinc in diet correlates significantly with the energy intake, protein and animal proteins in diet. Serum zinc correlates with animal protein intake and total energy of the diet. Pregnancy is a significant modulator of zinc status, but nutritional factor is a very important determinant for maintaining optimal nutritional zinc status. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/8743339/
Abstract: Approximately 4000 new cases of sudden hearing loss (SHL) occur annually in the United States, and 15,000 annually worldwide, accounting for approximately 1% of all cases of SHL. Although prevalence studies do not necessarily distinguish between idiopathic and acquired SHL, most cases of spontaneous SHL have no identifiable cause. In this article, the authors assess the cause, history, diagnosis, and treatment of SHL. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/8743533/
Abstract: This study was designed to investigate whether some relation exists between afferent arteriolar resistance (AAR) and the renal production of nitric oxide (NO) and prostacyclin (PGI2) in 21 patients with untreated essential hypertension and 20 normotensive controls. All subjects were studied in conditions of an unlimited Na+ diet both basally and after a four-hour amino acid infusion. AAR was calculated using Gomez's equations. Renal production of NO and PGI2 were assessed by radioimmunoassay of the urinary excretion of cGMP and 6-keto-PGF1 alpha, respectively. Baseline AAR was higher (P < 0.01) in hypertensives than in normotensives. The baseline urinary excretion of 6-keto-PGF1 alpha and cGMP were similar in the two groups of subjects. AAR diminished (P < 0.005) in normotensives and remained unchanged in hypertensives after amino acid infusion. Urinary excretion of 6-keto-PGF1 alpha was increased similarly in the two groups of subjects after infusion. Urinary excretion of cGMP remained unchanged in normotensives and decreased by 31% in hypertensives after infusion. These findings suggest that afferent vasoconstriction present in hypertensive patients is unresponsive to the vasodilatory manoeuvre of amino acid infusion. This lack of response may be due to a defective renal synthesis of NO in these patients. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/8743839/
Abstract: A cross-sectional study on the level of lipid peroxidation and nutrient intake of 44 healthy pregnant women (34-36 gestation week) at average age 24.9 +/- 4.5 years and 15 controls (nonpregnant, nonlactating) at average age 31.8 +/- 7.6 years, was carried out. The level of lipid peroxidation was measured by the concentration of TBA-reactive substance (TBARS) in plasma and red blood cells and the concentration of reduced glutathione in red blood cells. The nutrient intake was studied by 5-day diet record. The results obtained showed an activation of lipid peroxidation in pregnant women evidenced by a statistically significant increase of TBARS in red blood cells. Nutrient density of the protein of animal origin, vitamin C and zinc was significantly diminished in the diet of pregnant women but their average daily intake of protein and vitamin C was higher than the recommended dietary allowances. Obviously the activated lipid peroxidation during pregnancy could not be related to inadequate intake of nutrients with antioxidant activity but most probably is a result of hormonal changes. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/8743868/
Abstract: In 1993 Assistant Secretary for Health Philip R. Lee commissioned an evaluation of U.S. Public Health Service (USPHS) activities in training and education for public health (TEPH). Findings revealed significant shortages of professionals and academic faculty in the public health fields of epidemiology, biostatistics, environmental and occupational health, public health nutrition, public health nursing, and preventive medicine. An inventory of PHS activities showed that about $217 million was spent on 151 public health and prevention training programs serving over 141,000 persons in fiscal year 1993. The $217 million amounted to about 18% of the total reported PHS training expenditures of $1.2 billion and about 1% of the total spending of $19.4 billion in fiscal year 1993. The National Institutes of Health (NIH) and Health Resources and Services Administration (HRSA) had the largest training expenditures of $655 and $445 million respectively, but spent only about 7% and 17% on public health and prevention training. Other PHS agencies had larger proportional investments in prevention, but the amounts were smaller. Priority recommendations were provided to Dr. Lee in seven key areas: advanced technology, core public health functions, policy and financing, academic-practice links, educational research, research training, and coordination. Together, these could dramatically increase the PHS proportional investment in TEPH. The PHS has a rich variety of resources for TEPH, but a lack of prioritization, coordination, and planning is causing opportunities to be missed. Medical Subject Headings (MeSH): public health, training, education. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/8743844/
Abstract: A retrospective study is carried out on preterm babies born under 2000 grams who were treated in the intensive care unit of State Institute Hospital--Machin dom for the period of 1990-1992. The aim of the study is to establish the optimal regime of nutrition for low birth weight infants using the experience in the Intensive Care Unit. The conclusion is made that preterm newborn babies in already stabilized condition have higher gain of weight if they begin to be fed earlier 8 times a day instead of 12 times a day. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/8743928/
Abstract: Use of long-term total parenteral nutrition (TPN) is often presumed to be associated with serious hepatic dysfunction. In this retrospective study, we reviewed the complete charts of patients who had received TPN for more than 2.5 years, starting in infancy or childhood, for evidence of liver dysfunction. There were 16 male and 10 female patients with a total of 254.5 patient years on TPN. Seventeen patients have been on TPN since birth or early infancy. Thirteen of 26 patients derive > or = 90% of their calorie intake from TPN. Six patients had hepatomegaly; two of them also had splenomegaly. Twenty-one patients had normal transaminases, nine have had past episodes of raised enzymes ranging from 2.5 to 7.5 times normal. Seventeen patients always had normal bilirubin levels, five had past episodes of hyperbilirubinaemia, while four patients had persistently raised bilirubin levels (range 1.5-20.7 g/dl). Alkaline phosphatase was normal for age in all patients except two. Hepatic synthetic function, as measured by albumin, pre-albumin levels and prothrombin time, was within the normal range in all patients except one. Liver biopsies were performed in eight patients. Two biopsies showed cirrhosis, one showed chronic active hepatitis (CAH) with cholestasis, two patients had fibrosis, one showed cholestasis and two biopsies were normal. One patient with cirrhosis and one with CAH were positive for hepatitis C antibody. Another asymptomatic patient was positive for hepatitis B. Only the patient with CAH had hepatic decompensation. We conclude that clinical hepatic failure is uncommon in our group of patients on long-term TPN for 2.5 years or more. Cirrhosis and fibrosis, when found, could not be solely attributed to TPN. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/8743925/
Abstract: Safe placement of nasogastric tubes requires reliable positioning of the tip of the tube within the stomach. Radiology and aspiration are currently used to confirm tube position, but suffer from significant problems of cost and efficacy, respectively. We have developed a novel method to locate the position of a catheter tip within the body, using the detection of low energy electromagnetic field generated in a coil located in the catheter with an external hand-held unit (Cathlocator). In vitro, the unit detected the distance of the coil from the detector with an accuracy of 0.1 cm over a range of 4-12 cm. In vivo studies were performed in 11 healthy volunteers using a purpose-built manometric assembly that incorporated the signal generating coil in its tip. In all subjects the Cathlocator showed the position of the signal generating coil to be cranial to the xiphisternum when manometric and transmucosal potential difference criteria showed it to be located above the lower oesophageal sphincter. When the coil was within the stomach, the Cathlocator identified its position within the epigastric, umbilical and left hypochondrial regions of the abdomen. The distance of the coil from the surface was significantly greater when in the duodenum mean (+/- s.e.m. 7.6 +/- 0.3 cm; P < 0.001) and oesophagus (8.6 +/- 0.2 cm; P < 0.002) than the stomach (5.0 +/- 0.4 cm). In one subject studied twice there was a close correlation between the location and depth measured by the device on each occasion. The Cathlocator is a novel non-radiological device that has the potential to be useful in the placement of gastrointestinal catheters. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/8744010/
Abstract: If magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS) is to become a useful tool in clinical medicine, it will be necessary to find reliable methods for analyzing and classifying MRS data. Automated methods are desirable because they can remove user bias and can deal with large amounts of data, allowing the use of all the available information. In this study, techniques for automatically extracting features for the classification of MRS in vivo data are investigated. Among the techniques used were wavelets, principal component analysis, and linear discriminant function analysis. These techniques were tested on a set of 75 in vivo 13C spectra of human adipose tissue from subjects from three different dietary groups (vegan, vegetarian, and omnivore). It was found that it was possible to assign automatically 94% of the vegans and omnivores to their correct dietary groups, without the need for explicit identification or measurement of peaks. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/8743984/
Abstract: The thymine oxidative lesion-5-hydroxymethyluracil (HMUra)-was measured in urine collected from cancer patients. These patients all received chemotherapy using Adriamycin. Adriamycin (ADR) intercalates DNA coils and interferes with normal cell metabolism through diverse biochemical mechanisms that may explain its different actions. The anticancer action of ADR could derive from its interaction with topoisomerase II, resulting in DNA nicking followed by DNA fragmentation and apoptosis. Side effects of ADR-mainly its cardiotoxicity-may derive from the fact that ADR generates superoxide and hydroxyl radicals in two ways: redox-cycling and a Haber-Weiss type reaction due to Fe-ADR complexes. The oxygen free radicals, particularly .OH, are thought to be produced by ADR directly in genomic material and attack all its components. 5-Hydroxymethyluracil is a thymine lesion provoked by these attacks, and it has been proposed as a marker of DNA alterations. In this article, we report the results of a study involving 14 cancer patients treated with ADR. We found that urine HMUra is significantly increased by the anticancer therapy (HMUra (nmol/24 h): 74.4 9.46 vs. 96.3 8.74; p < .01), this increase reveals a higher risk of mutagenesis. Our study is the first to show an in vivo alteration of DNA by ADR. Results also show that thiobarbituric acid reactants increase significantly, and that the vitamin levels for retinol and alpha-tocopherol, which are antioxidant vitamins, are lower at the end of chemotherapy. We suggest to supplement these patients with vitamins A and E, and selenium to reduce the side effects of ADR. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/8743929/
Abstract: Orthotopic liver transplantation (OLT) is now a definitive treatment option for most cases of endstage liver disease (ESLD) in children. Efforts now focus on active supportive treatment to maintain, if not improve, the patient's clinical status before OLT and to ensure normal patterns of growth and development after OLT. Malnutrition adversely affects the outcome of OLT and is probably the single area in pre-operative management where the largest potential improvement can be made. Our studies indicate significant abnormalities of protein energy metabolism and body composition in children referred for OLT. We have shown that the use of enteral formulae, enriched with branched-chain amino acids, have significant advantages. Other adjunctive therapy, such as growth hormone, is the subject of current investigation. Following transplantation, catch-up weight and growth does occur with the advent of normal liver function, but patients at continuing risk for undernutrition, such as those with rejection and/or chronic infection, need to be targeted for specific nutritional therapy. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/8744072/
Abstract: The "oxidation hypothesis" states that oxidised low-density lipoprotein (ox-LDL) plays a central role in atherogenesis. LDL oxidation is a chaotic process initiated by reactive oxygen species. Enhanced uptake of ox-LDL in macrophages leads to foam cell formation in vitro, and ox-LDL has a variety of other experimental proatherogenic effects, e.g., endothelial cell activation, immunogenicity, platelet aggregation, and inhibition of endothelium-dependent vaso-relaxation. There are methodological limitations in the current laboratory methods aimed at characterization of the oxidative state of LDL. However, considerable evidence indicates that ox-LDL is found in plasma, arteries, and atheromatous plaques of humans, although the significance of this phenomenon is unknown. Antioxidants may inhibit atherosclerosis in experimental animals, and epidemiological data suggest an inverse relation between the intake of antioxidant vitamins and the risk of coronary artery disease. Randomised prospective trials are in progress, and until their conclusion, the clinical effect of antioxidant therapy in man remains unknown. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/8744116/
Abstract: We have studied the effect of therapeutic fasting in 76 patients with pulmonary sarcoidosis (28, 45 and 3 patients with stage I, II and III, respectively). Fifty-two patients with PS stage I, II and minimal clinical symptoms received fasting alone. Twenty-four patients with PS stage II, III and frequent recurrences received combined treatment (fasting and oral corticosteroids). The efficacy of the treatment was evaluated by clinical symptoms, X-ray picture, pulmonary capillary blood flow and immunological parameters. We have found that therapeutic fasting reduced clinical symptoms in 85% of the patients, improved x-ray picture in 62% of the patients. Positive trend was also registered in immunological parameters. Therapeutic fasting produced maximal positive effect in patients with PS stage I, II and duration of the disease less than 1 year. Patients with PS stage II, III and the disease duration more than 1 year should be treated with fasting in combination with corticosteroids. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/8744215/
Abstract: A reverse-phase liquid chromatographic method was adapted for the assay of pantothenic acid in infant milk formulas. Sample preparation consisted of deproteination with acetic acid and sodium acetate solutions, followed by centrifugation and filtration. The chromatographic system included a C-18 column and a mobile phase consisting of a sodium phosphate buffer and acetonitrile (97:3, vol/vol). The column effluent was monitored by UV detection at 197 nm. The system was linear from 50 to 800 ng. The recoveries of pantothenic acid from augmented samples ranged from 89 to 98%, and the coefficients of variation ranged from 1.17 to 3.20%. The results obtained with the HPLC and a microbiological method were highly correlated for starting infant formula, follow-up infant formula, and formula for infants of low birth weight from four different manufactures. All formulas analyzed contained pantothenic acid at concentrations higher than those declared on their nutritional labels and were in compliance with international recommendations. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/8744256/
Abstract: Adaptations in resistance training are focused on the development and maintenance of the neuromuscular unit needed for force production [97, 136]. The effects of training, when using this system, affect many other physiological systems of the body (e.g., the connective tissue, cardiovascular, and endocrine systems) [16, 18, 37, 77, 83]. Training programs are highly specific to the types of adaptation that occur. Activation of specific patterns of motor units in training dictate what tissue and how other physiological systems will be affected by the exercise training. The time course of the development of the neuromuscular system appears to be dominated in the early phase by neural factors with associated changes in the types of contractile proteins. In the later adaptation phase, muscle protein increases, and the contractile unit begins to contribute the most to the changes in performance capabilities. A host of other factors can affect the adaptations, such as functional capabilities of the individual, age, nutritional status, and behavioral factors (e.g., sleep and health habits). Optimal adaptation appears to be related to the use of specific resistance training programs to meet individual training objectives. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/8744251/
Abstract: Fatty acids are an important source of energy for skeletal muscle contraction, particularly during exercise of mild-moderate intensity, prolonged duration, and in the fasting state. Plasma FFA transported from remote adipose tissue stores and triglycerides contained within skeletal muscle fibers are the major sources of these fatty acids. The relative contribution of each source is dependent on the mode, intensity, and duration of exercise and on training status. Plasma FFA oxidation is directly related to the rate of lipolysis in adiopose tissue. The most potent stimulants of the latter are the catecholamines, but a lower plasma insulin concentration during exercise also plays a contributory role. In contrast, intramuscular triglyceride hydrolysis appears to be mediated entirely by beta 2-adrenergic stimulation. Endurance training substantially enhances fatty acid oxidative capacity in skeletal muscle and increases the proportion of energy derived from fatty acid oxidation during exercise. In addition, the sympathoadrenal response to exercise is markedly blunted in the trained state. Studies conducted in our laboratory indicate that plasma FFA and glycerol concentrations and whole body FFA uptake and oxidation are all decreased during moderate-intensity exercise at the same absolute work rate after physical conditioning, probably because of the reduction of sympathoadrenal activity. However, the lipolytic response to catecholamines also is enhanced in trained subjects. Perhaps as a consequence, the magnitude of the decrease in lipolysis and plasma FFA oxidation is less than the decrement in sympathoadrenal activity in the same individuals during exercise in the trained state. Other investigations were conducted in our laboratory to determine the source of the additional fatty acids oxidized in physically conditioned subjects. These studies demonstrated that during moderate-intensity exercise at the same absolute work rate, depletion of triglycerides from within skeletal muscle fibers was twice as great after, as opposed to, before training. Regardless of training status, intramuscular triglyceride use accounted for about 90% of the oxidized fatty acids that were not supplied from adipose tissue via the plasma. Intramuscular triglycerides were the source of virtually all of the additional fatty acids oxidized in the trained state. Both before and after physical conditioning they explained the discrepancy between the rates of plasma FFA and total fat oxidation during moderate-intensity exercise of up to 2 hr in duration. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/8744540/
Abstract: Sodium restriction is the most commonly used lifestyle modification for control of hypertension. Nevertheless, there is no consensus on the relative importance of salt in the development of hypertension, nor is the physiological mechanism(s) responsible for salt-induced elevations of blood pressure clearly understood. This review focuses on new research developments in this area. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/8744293/
Abstract: The pulsatile pattern of growth hormone (GH) secretion was assessed by sampling blood every 10 min over 24 h in healthy subjects (n = 10) under normal food intake and under fasting conditions (n = 6) and in patients with a GH-producing tumor (acromegaly, n = 6), before and after treatment with the somatostatin analog octreotide. Using autocorrelation, we found no consistent separation in the temporal dynamics of GH secretion in healthy controls and acromegalic patients. Time series prediction based on a single neural network has recently been demonstrated to separate the secretory dynamics of parathyroid hormone in healthy controls from osteoporotic patients. To better distinguish the differences in GH dynamics in healthy subjects and patients, we tested time series predictions based on a single neural network and a more refined system of multiple neural networks acting in parallel (adaptive mixtures of local experts). Both approaches significantly separated GH dynamics under the various conditions. By performing a self-organized segmentation of the alternating phases of secretory bursts and quiescence of GH, we significantly improved the performance of the multiple network system over that of the single network. It thus may represent a potential tool for characterizing alterations of the dynamic regulation associated with diseased states. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/8744587/
Abstract: Much more could be written about the issues addressed here, as well as about issues that are not even mentioned. The goal was to present a brief overview of some of the techniques and issues in quantitative health risk assessment based upon animal data. Hopefully, this overview will provoke some attention to specific in risk assessment that require more research. Perhaps the bibliographic references given will lead to other papers. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/8744411/
Abstract: The high degree of overlap in the neuropathologic outcome of Alzheimer's disease (AD), Down's Syndrome (DS), and coronary heart disease suggest a possible interrelationship. The pattern of hippocampal and cortical intraneuronal beta A4 immunoreactivity is strikingly similar in AD, DS, coronary heart disease, and two separate animal models of coronary heart disease. Cells in fascia dentata and large cortical neurons were beta A4 immunodecorated in half the AD and DS subjects studied. Similar neuronal staining occurred in half the age-matched coronary heart disease subjects, but was absent in each nonheart disease control investigated. Analogous accumulations of neuronal beta A4 immunoreactivity were induced in rabbit brain by dietary administration of high cholesterol, and this effect could be reversed by regression of the experimental diet. Decreased density (p < 0.05) and cellular staining intensity occurred after 2 weeks of control diet following 8 weeks of high cholesterol. Microgliosis accompanied the accumulation of beta A4 immunoreactivity in the cholesterol-fed rabbits and persisted after regression of the diet and decreases in neuronal beta A4 immunoreactivity. An identical pattern of neuronal beta A4 immunoreactivity was induced in the brains of adolescent pigs after acute ligation of the left anterior descending coronary artery (LAD) compared to surgical and anesthetic controls. The mean number of beta A4 immunoreactive neurons was significantly increased (p < 0.05) in the cortex and hippocampus of pigs with a ligated LAD compared to both control groups. Increased density and intensity of neuronal beta A4 immunoreactivity induced by ligation of the LAD was commensurate with the severity of the decreased cardiac output in the LAD group, but not in the anesthetic control groups with decreased cardiac output. The incidence of ALZ-50 (A68) immunoreactive neurons also increased in the ligated pigs compared to both control groups. The data suggest a neuronal origin of beta A4 immunoreactive peptide(s), which can be cleared from the brain by microglia after severe accumulation is induced. This could indicate that reduced clearance of beta-APP metabolic by-products could contribute to a metabolic backlog and redirection of peptide processing by microglia to extracellular deposition. Neuronal accumulation of beta A4 immunoreactivity could be due to the effect of circulating factors on brain function in both animals models. It is likely that animal models of coronary heart disease may be useful in disclosing the mechanism of SP formation and induction of ALZ-50 immunoreactivity irrespective of their pathoclinical significance. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/8762118/
Abstract: Although there have been major advances in the treatment of heart failure, loop diuretics remain essential for the treatment of fluid retention. Patients with refractory heart failure become resistant to progressively larger doses of diuretics. Some of the strategies which may be helpful in restoring diuretic efficacy are reviewed. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/8762232/
Abstract: Food hypersensitivity includes adverse reactions to food which are most often mediated by IgE. Food allergy is the first atopic disease. Food-sensitized individuals can develop allergic reactions such as atopic dermatitis, urticaria, angioedema, rhinitis, asthma or digestive symptoms. Anaphylactic shock is the most severe reaction of immediate hypersensitivity. The prevalence of food allergy has drastically increased during the last years. Numerous food products can be involved, with special emphasis on masked allergens in processed foods. The diagnosis of food hypersensitivity is based on clinical history, analysis of patient's food intake, skin tests and placebo-controlled food challenge tests. Oral food-challenge tests allow a distinction between food sensitization and true food hypersensitivity. Treatment consists in avoidance of the offending food allergen associated with adjunctive therapy by antihistamines and disodium cromoglycate. The prescription of a first-aid kit is required in case of anaphylaxis. Specific immunotherapy seems to be an interesting therapeutic prospect. Prevention remains essential. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/8762235/
Abstract: Some allergenic aggressions produce life threatening reactions requiring an emergency treatment. Anaphylaxis is related to relatively isolated exposures: drugs, food, hymenoptera stings. Anaphylactic shock is a life threatening reaction due to several mechanisms of mast cells degranulation. Exercise-induced anaphylaxis is sometimes symptomatic of food allergy, and idiopathic anaphylaxis may also represent a severe reaction. Adrenaline is the mainstay for emergency treatment; it has to be used as soon as possible, according to correct procedures as a first-step treatment. Emergency treatment may also be required after an allergenic exposure, especially fungal, responsible for allergic asthma exacerbation, severe cutaneous or mucosal lesions (laryngeal oedema, angiooedema...). 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/8762234/
Abstract: Epidemiologic data have shown an increased prevalence (and severity) of atopy related diseases (asthma, eczema and allergic rhinitis) during the post 15-20 years. Atopic respiratory diseases such as allergic rhinitis and asthma represent the effects of an immunological response to allergens, mediated through immunoglobulins E. Development of a clinically significant atopic reaction depends on environmental exposure. The majority of allergic children display positive skin tests to house dust mites, animal danders or pollens. Immediate hypersensitivity to food allergens starts early in life and is most often associated with atopic dermatitis. Allergic reactions to peanuts are generally acute and severe, with an increasing frequency. Parents must be aware of their child's problem and preventive measures must be undertaken very early in life, first at home and later also at school. Family history remains the best predictor of atopy in newborn babies. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/8762400/
Abstract: Shigella dysentery is a major public-health problem in many tropical areas. Despite improvements in water supplies and sanitation, it continues to be a disease of poor rural and urban communities and in populations affected by migration and crowding following disasters. Pathogenesis is due to colonic invasion, endotoxin, and, in Shigella dysenteriae 1, shiga toxin. As well as the local manifestations of dysentery, systemic complications include convulsions, haemolytic-uraemic syndrome, hyponatraemia and hypoglycaemia. The spread of shigella infection is most commonly person-person, although water and food-borne outbreaks have been reported. Since 1970, multiple antimicrobial resistance, particularly in Sh. dysenteriae 1, has complicated strategies for management. Multiply resistant strains have occurred in Latin America, Central Africa and southern and south-eastern Asia. No vaccines are currently available, and prevention and control will depend on public-health improvements and improved case management. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/8762558/
Abstract: The contractile effect of erythromycin on gallbladder has not been fully understood. This effect was investigated in the isolated gallbladder of golden hamster gallstone model and in human by ultrasonography. Erythromycicn induced concentration-dependent contraction of gallbladder in 28 hamsters with normal diet and in 13 with gallstone diet. In those two groups the maximal contractile effect and the half maximal effective concentration were similar (P > 0.05). In clinical study, the fasting volume and residual volume were significantly diminished in 23 volunteers and 15 with cholecystolithiasis and the ejection fraction and the constant emptying rate increased (P < 0.05). Erythromycin also modulated the hypomotility of gallbladder in gallstone patients, hence could be used in gallbladder hypomotility cases. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/8762529/
Abstract: A downward facing tissue flap from the posterior wall of trachea and the anterior wall of esophagus was made after total laryngectomy, then inserted into the esophageal cavity to form a fistula. In order to cover the fistular opening and also to avoid food aspiration, 2-3 mm of the valvular tip must be kept. Of 11 cases undergoing this operation, 5 patients obtained a good vocalization, a comparative dysphonia occurred in 3 patients and another 3 patients got a esophageal voice due to shut of their fistulae. We consider this method a rather simple one, vocalization can recover easily without any special training, and also there were few complications will emerge. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/8762409/
Abstract: Hepatitis E, also known as epidemic, non-A, non-B hepatitis, is an acute, enteric, infectious disease. The disease is usually mild, except in pregnant women, who suffer a high fatality rate from fulminant hepatic failure. Information on the disease in Thailand is limited. The prevalence of antibodies to the aetiological agent, hepatitis E virus (HEV), was therefore studied, in various groups of subjects from several regions of this country, using commercial ELISA for anti-HEV IgG and IgM. The prevalence of anti-HEV IgG, which was 9%-22% in the adult subjects (blood donors, pregnant women, patients with acute hepatitis and cases seen during an outbreak of hepatitis), increased with age. It was relatively low in children and adolescents from Bangkok (3.6%) and in children from the north-east (1.8%-6.2%) and south (2.3%) of the country. Five (7%) of the 68 patients with acute viral hepatitis who were tested for anti-HEV IgM were found positive. Although these five cases had jaundice (four cases), diarrhoea (three) and/or dark urine (at least four cases), all of these clinical signs were self-limiting and had no sequelae. Given the apparently high prevalence of HEV infection in young adults in Thailand, control measures, including provision of clean water supplies and better personal sanitation and food hygiene, should be implemented to prevent an epidemic of the disease. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/8762097/
Abstract: 1. The effect of suramin and pyridoxalphosphate-6-azophenyl-2',4'-disulphonic acid (PPADS) on the stimulation of phospholipase C in 1321N1 cells transfected with the human P2U-purinoceptor (h-P2U-1321N1 cells) or with the turkey P2Y-purinoceptor (t-P2Y-1321N1 cells) was investigated. 2-Methylthioadenosine triphosphate (2MeSATP) was used as the agonist at t-P2Y-1321N1 cells and uridine triphosphate (UTP) at h-P2U-1321N1 cells. 2. Suramin caused a parallel shift to the right of the concentration-response curves for 2MeSATP in the t-P2Y-1321N1 cells, yielding a Schild plot with a slope of 1.16 +/- 0.08 and a pA2 value of 5.77 +/- 0.11. 3. Suramin also caused a shift to the right of concentration-response curves for UTP in the h-P2U-1321N1 cells, and on Schild plots gave a slope different from unity (1.57 +/- 0.19) and an apparent pA2 value of 4.32 +/- 0.13. Suramin was therefore a less potent antagonist at the P2U-purinoceptor than the P2Y-purinoceptor. 4. In the presence of the ectonucleotidase inhibitor, ARL 67156 (6-N,N-diethyl-beta,gamma-dibromomethylene-D-ATP) there was no significant difference in the EC50 or shapes of curves with either cell type, and no difference in pA2 values for suramin. 5. PPADS caused an increase in the EC50 for 2MeSATP in the t-P2Y-1321N1 cells. The Schild plot had a slope different from unity (0.55 +/- 0.15) and an X-intercept corresponding to an apparent pA2 of 5.98 +/- 0.65. 6. PPADS up to 30 microM had no effect on the concentration-response curve for UTP with the h-P2U-1321N1 cells. 7. In conclusion, suramin and PPADS show clear differences in their action at the 2 receptor types, in each case being substantially more effective as an antagonist at the P2Y-purinoceptor than at the P2U-purinoceptor. Ectonucleotidase breakdown had little influence on the nature of the responses at the two receptor types, or in their differential sensitivity to suramin. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/8762375/
Abstract: Study objective:
        
      
      To investigate differences between smokers and non-smokers in health behaviour, cardiovascular risk factors, coronary heart disease (CHD) risks, health knowledge, health attitudes, and compliance with a CHD prevention programme. Design:
        
      
      Differences between smokers and non-smokers were studied via medical examinations, questionnaires, physical exercise activity logs, and food record sheets. Data were analysed using univariate and multivariate analyses. The five and 10 year CHD risks were assessed using the Framingham CHD risk estimate. Setting:
        
      
      The Karolinska Hospital, Stockholm, and Sollentuna Primary Health Centre, Sollentuna, Sweden. Participants:
        
      
      The analyses were based on 158 healthy smoking and non-smoking men aged 35-60 years with raised cardiovascular risk factors who enrolled in controlled, randomised six month diet and exercise programmes. Main results:
        
      
      Discriminant analysis suggested that smokers, compared with non-smokers, were characterised by a higher alcohol energy percent, lower HDL cholesterol concentration, lower systolic blood pressure, and a higher plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 (PAI-1) value. Knowledge of the risk factors for CHD was not a discriminating factor. Both smokers and non-smokers increased the exercise taken, improved their diet, and lowered their CHD risk. Before, as well as after the intervention, smokers had a higher CHD risk than non-smokers. Conclusions:
        
      
      The best CHD prevention action that could be taken by smokers would of course be to quit smoking. Those who cannot stop should be encouraged to improve their diet and increase the amount of physical exercise they take in order to reduce the health hazards of their smoking behaviour. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/8762657/
Abstract: Since their aparition in 1980, percutaneus endoscopic gastrostomy (PEG), represented a dramatic impact in the enteral nutrition thecnics and their indication have expanded. The PEG have many advantages over the surgical gastrostomy. In this paper, we present our experience with the use of PEG in patients with head and neck cancer using a new home made gastrostome. Included were 61 patients 37 males (64.8%), 21 females (36.2%) with ages betwen 11 and 72 years. In 3 patients the PEG was not intended because tight esophageal stenoses. The PEG was completed in 56 cases (91.8%). In 5 patients (8.6%) there were minor complications (4 infections and 1 patient with pain). We have only one case of major complication which consisted in migration of gastrotome to the abdominal wall (Buried Bumper Syndrome). The gastrostome was patent between 15 and 312 days with a median of 125 days. The gastrostomies was made with siliconed 22Fr Foley catheter, crazy glue, and plastic tops. The Foley catheter is acid resistant and not deteriorate like other materials like latex. There was not adverse reaction at the ostomy site. The cost of the kit is about 11 US$ and the commercial kit is 125 US$, on the other hand the internal diameter is 15% wider than the commercial one. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/8762672/
Abstract: During 1985-1994 period, 70,642 parasitological stool examinations were performed. The exam was made to each patient which presenting gastrointestinal symptoms or nutritional problems, specially in children. 59,960 out of the 70,642 examinations corresponded to 1 month--15 years old children, 4,280 to 16-30 years old individuals and 6.402 to up to 30 years old adults. The infection rates (x 100,000) were: Taenia sp., 86; Hymenolepis nana, 1,165; Diphyllobotrium sp., 4 and Hymenolepis diminuta, 1. In this period, 11 cases of infection by Taenia saginata were detected, and none Taenia sodium infection. Although infections rates by intestinal cesdodes were higher in males than females, in the Taenia sp. infection the difference was not statistical significative. Mdico-veterinary control of animals slaughtered in abbatoirs and the improvement of sanitary conditions in the last two decades have contributed to the control of most of human intestinal cestodiases. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/8763026/
Abstract: Until the last decade, kidney aging was considered to be the result of progressive loss of nephrons associated with development of glomerulosclerosis and thus decrease in glomerular filtration rate, and finally renal deficiency. However this nephropathy can also result of environmental (such as husbandry conditions, diet ...) and genetical factors. So, food restriction can protect glomeruli against hyperfiltration and risks of glomerulosclerosis. Both capillaries and large vessels were modified during aging. Concerning the glomerular capillaries, the main alterations are changes in glomerular hemodynamics and in the composition and structure of the glomerular basement membrane (noticeably thickening and decrease in heparan sulfate proteoglycans and thus in anionic barrier), glycation of both the structural and plasma protein, resulting in increased permeability of the glomerular capillary wall and development of proteinuria. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/8762842/
Abstract: The zoonotic importance of Mycobacterium bovis has been the subject of renewed interest in the wake of the increasing incidence of tuberculosis in the human population. This paper considers some of the conditions under which transmission of M. bovis from animals to humans occurs and reviews current information on the global distribution of the disease. The paper highlights the particular threat posed by this zoonotic disease in developing countries and lists the veterinary and human public health measures that need to be adopted if the disease is to be contained. The association of tuberculosis with malnutrition and poverty has long been recognized and the need to address these basic issues are as crucial as specific measures against the disease itself. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/8763099/
Abstract: Refsum's disease, firstly described almost 50 years ago by the Norvegian neurologist Sigvald Refsum, is an autosomic recessive disease affecting mostly the Scandinavians and the populations originating from Northern Europe. The disease results from a specific enzyme deficiency of the first step of phytanic acid catabolism pathway. This deficiency leads to an accumulation of this C20 fatty acid in the serum and the tissues with a preference for adipose tissue, liver and kidneys. The clinical picture includes retinitis pigmentosa, peripheral neuropathy, ataxia and elevated cerebrospinal fluid protein concentration. Other less frequent manifestations include cranial nerves deficiency, myocardiopathy, renal tubular dysfunction and ichtyosis. The diagnosis relies on serum phytanic acid measurement. The treatment consists of a phytanic-acid free diet sometimes associated with plasmapheresis. This treatment is generally effective on neuropathy but not on cranial nerves dysfunction and retinitis pigmentosa. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/8762733/
Abstract: Objective:
        
      
      Changes in calcium homeostasis and bone mass around the climacteric are poorly understood. We examined relations between endocrine factors and indices of bone mass and metabolism in healthy women approaching the menopause. Design:
        
      
      Cross-section study. Patients:
        
      
      Sixty-eight spontaneously menstruating women aged 45-55. Measurements:
        
      
      Bone density measured at lumbar spine (LS) and femoral neck (FN) using dual energy X-ray absorptiometry and distal non-dominant forearm using peripheral quantitative computed tomography. We recorded menstrual history, physical activity and dietary calcium, and measured serum calcium, phosphate, alkaline phosphatase, osteocalcin, vitamin D, fT3, T4, TSH, PTH, FSH and oestradiol (E2), and urinary pyridinoline (PYD) and deoxypyridinoline (DPD) excretion. Results:
        
      
      Using serum FSH level as a marker of ovarian function, 63 subjects could be classified into one of three groups: group A (serum FSH < 10 U/l, n = 29), group B (10-35 U/l, n = 27) and group C (> 35 U/l, n = 7). Bone density fell with declining ovarian function at the LS, FN and forearm trabecular (but not cortical) sites. Serum PTH was lower in group A vs B (mean (SD) 2.68 (0.97) vs 3.52 (1.17) pmol/l, P < 0.05), but similar to group C (2.90 (1.09) pmol/l, P = NS). Serum phosphate was elevated in group C compared to groups A and B (1.17 (0.15) vs 1.04 (0.11) and 1.05 (0.13) mmol/l, P < 0.05), and urinary PYD (61.1 (8.0) vs 50.4 (11.6) and 43.9 (8.1) mumol/mol creatinine) and DPD (15.9 (3.9) vs 12.0 (3.6) and 11.4 (3.6) mumol/mol creatinine) excretion were also increased. There were no significant differences in vitamin D metabolites or osteocalcin. Multivariate analysis suggested serum osteocalcin was positively related to physical activity and serum 1,25-dihydroxycholecalciferol levels. Serum free T3 was positively correlated with urinary DPD excretion, and inversely related to serum PTH. In all subjects, serum PTH was related to body weight (r = 0.38, P = 0.002). Conclusions:
        
      
      Declining ovarian function before menopause is accompanied by reductions in bone mass and altered calcium metabolism. Free T3 may regulate bone resorption and indirectly modulate PTH release. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/759825/
Abstract: The rates of production of total ketone bodies (acetoacetate + beta-hydroxybutyrate) were determined using an isotope tracer technique in 23 obese subjects submitted to a fast of variable duration (15 hr--23 days). Constant infusions of 14C-acetoacetate were used in most studies, but similar results were obtained with pulse injections of this tracer or with constant infusions of 14C-D(-)-beta-hydroxybutyrate. Blood concentration, production rate, and urinary elimination of total ketones rose during approximately the first 3 days of fast and plateaued thereafter at values amounting, respectively, to 7.09 +/- 0.32 mumole/ml, 1908 +/- 80 mumole/min and 167 +/- 14 mumole/min. The rates of ketogenesis are significantly higher than those usually reported in the literature. Ketonemia was an exponential function of production rate suggesting that tissue uptake becomes progressively saturated as inflow rate rises. The same type of relationship between concentration and inflow rate was observed in nine control overnight fasted obese subjects rendered hyperketonemic with infusions of variable amounts of unlabeled acetoacetate. The comparison between the fasted and the control subjects at ketone concentrations of 3--10 mumole/ml showed that on an average, starvation is associated with a 35% decrease in the metabolic clearance rate of ketones. These data suggest that fasting is associated with an impairment of mechanisms for utilizing ketones, this defect contributing to the hyperketonemia of food deprivation. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/8763044/
Abstract: We have attempted to provide a progress report on current research on the role of catecholamines and serotonin receptor subtypes in feeding control. Recent evidence suggests that only some of the several catecholamine receptor subtypes are specifically involved in feeding control. They include the beta 1/2-adrenoceptors, the alpha 1-adrenoceptors and the D1 dopamine receptors: stimulation of these receptors reduces feeding in rats. Stimulation of serotonergic 5-HT1B and 5-HT2C receptors reduces feeding and perhaps enhances the satiating effect of food. Recently, an interesting reciprocal relation between serotonin and cholecystokinin has been discovered in relation to feeding control. The serotonergic 5-HT2A receptors are involved in stress-induced anorexia and regulate the hyperphagia induced by neuropeptide Y in the nucleus paraventricularis of the hypothalamus. Both effects may involve changes in the secretion of corticotropin-releasing factor. These findings may help elaborate neuronal models of feeding control and perhaps facilitate progress in the pharmacotherapy of human obesity and eating disorders. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/759993/
Abstract: Plasma cholesterol esterifying activity has been measured in guinea pigs fed either a control diet or the same diet supplemented with 1% cholesterol. The extent of esterification was found to be similar in the cholesterol-fed and control guinea pigs and somewhat lower than in rats. The initial rate of esterification was also of the same magnitude as that found in rats and humans, and unaffected by dietary cholesterol if autologous plasma was used as substrate. However, LCAT activity from cholesterol-fed guinea pigs was significantly higher than that of control plasma when acting on either control or cholesterol-fed substrate. This suggests that dietary cholesterol increases the amount (or activity) of LCAT but that the substrate is unsuitable or that a necessary cofactor is present in limiting amounts. Heat treatment of guinea pig plasma seems to alter substrate availability to varying degrees. The implications of these findings in relation to substrate specificity and cofactor requirements of guinea pig LCAT are discussed. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/759995/
Abstract: Metabolic reactions during long-time intravenous infusion of glucose in dosages according to basal energy requirements of man were investigated. Infusion of 0.2-0.4 g glucose/kg body weight/h led to the typical behaviour of blood glucose with an initial peak and a subsequent steady state. The steady state was dose-dependent and always higher than the starting value. Insulin always rose significantly with increasing scattering of the individual values with higher glucose loads. With 0.1 g glucose/kg/h, the steady state of blood glucose, after a minimal initial peak, was lower than the starting value, and no change of insulin in the peripheral venous blood could be observed. Free fatty acid levels initially always decreased, but rose again under low glucose loads (0.1 and 0.2g/kg/h). In all experiments, with an increase of insulin, a decrease of serum potassium was found. Sodium, calcium, bilirubin, creatinine and urea-N did not show any typical changes. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/760018/
Abstract: Because a few ovarian adenocarcinomas respond favorably to endocrine therapy, we tested the hypothesis that some ovarian adenocarcinomas have functional similarity with sex-hormone-sensitive endometrial and breast tumors. Cytosols from 23 ovarian adenocarcinomas and 27 control tissues were examined for receptorlike estrogen and/or progestin binding. Eight of 16 primary ovarian adenocarcinomas had estrogen and/or progestin receptorlike components; among the metastases tested, one third retained estrogen binding. No correlations were found between binding characteristics and histopathologic grade. The presence of estrogen binding in a lung lesion helped confirm recurrent ovarian disease. Estrogen binding occurred in specimens from women with no histories of exposure to exogenous estrogen. Because tamoxifen and nafoxidine could inhibit estradiol binding, it is likely that antiestrogens will prove beneficial against some ovarian cancers. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/760421/
Abstract: Major effects of oral contraceptives on nutritional status are elevation of triglycerides, decline in glucose tolerance, an apparent increase in the need for folate and vitamins C, B2 and B6, and a decrease in iron loss. Women at greater risk of nutritional deficits due to oral contraceptives include those who have just had a baby, are planning to have a baby later, already show nutritional deficiencies, have had recent illness or surgery, have poor dietary habits, are still growing or have a family history of diabetes or heart disease. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/760352/
Abstract: The relative importance of the insulin resistance, the decreased cellular insulin binding and the relative insulin deficiency in the pathogenesis of diabetes mellitus in obese subjects has been studied. Ten obese diabetics were studied before and during treatment for 1 year with a 1200-1500 kcal's diet. No change was found in the insulin response to iv injection of glucose during treatment (P greater than 0.1), whereas the insulin sensitivity was normalized after 1 year (P less than 0.01). In parallel to the clinical normalization and the improvement of the insulin sensitivity the insulin binding to monocytes was normalized (P less than 0.01). We conclude that both the insulin resistance and the relative insulin deficiency are of decisive importance in the pathogenesis of diabetes mellitus of the obese. The insulin receptor defect seems to be one of the major factors responsible for the insulin resistance. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/779267/
Abstract: The influence of new products "Vitalakt" and "Malysh", enriched with polyunsaturated fatty acids, on the evolution of acute gastro-intestinal diseases and the lipids metabolism characteristics (total lipids, cholesterol and its ethers, phospholipids, nonetherified fatty acids in the blood serum), as well as on blood serum, protein fractions was studied. A total of 137 children were examined and the diet of 87 of them included the new dairy products "Vitalakt" and Malysh". These new dairy mixtures have been found to exert a beneficial effect on the course of the disease, tended to normalize the blood serum lipids characteristics and to reduce dysproteinemia. All this warrants recommending the mixtures "Vitalakt" and "Malysh" to be included in the diet of infants in the first year of life, suffering from acute gastro-intestinal diseases. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/779589/
Abstract: This study was carried out to ascertain whether, as has been suggested, the ingestion of a serum-cholesterol-lowering diet would be conducive to cholelithiasis. The prevalence of gallstones was studied in autopsied male and female patients of two mental hospitals in connection with a long-term controlled trial on prevention of coronary heart disease by means of a diet with a high polyunsaturated/saturated fatty acid ratio. The prevalence of gallstones was in men: 20/89 (equals 22.5%) on cholesterol-lowering diet and 11/44 (equals 25%) on normal diet; and in women: 151/262 (equals 42%) on cholesterol-lowering diet and 29/62 (equals 47%) on normal diet. It was concluded that in our trial the cholesterol-lowering diet was not lithogenic. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/779439/
Abstract: The world food crisis is as critical today as when it was debated at the 1974 World Food Conference in Rome. Since the United States and Canada-and to a lesser extent, Australia and New Zealand-lead in the production of corn, wheat and soybeans, the North American "bread basket" has become the "market basket" of the world. For welfare, economic, and political reasons, our energies, resources, and deliberations must be expanded toward optimum production of wholesome food products. I do not recommend that we permit food additives in "questionably" safe or excessive concentrations in our agricultural products. I do recommend, however, that tolerance limits for food additives be established based on a comprehensive review of all contributing factors-the world food crisis and the rational interpretation of both positive and negative animal data as they relate to man. As Dr. Herbert Stokinger put it so aptly: "Avoid the establishment of unnecessarily severe standards." 2. Funds for research and teaching of food and nutrition should be greatly increased, so that all who can read and write may be made aware of the daily dietary requirements for the maintenance of good health. 3. Unsubstantiated scare tactics in publications of the scientific and lay press can only lead to well-intended but often emotionally-inspired restrictions, ordinances, and laws. Such decisions are likely to either under- or over-define the requirements and standards for food additives and other chemicals which are important to the well-being of the populace. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/779397/
Abstract: The antibody content of milk from healthy Swedish mothers was compared with that of milk from mothers of a very low socio-economic group in a developing country. Antibodies of various immunoglobulin classes against E. coli O antigens were determined with the enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). The milk antibodies which mainly belonged to the secretory IgA class appeared in similar concentrations in milk from the two groups using E. coli antigens of Swedish as well as Pakistani origin. The secretory IgA antibodies could be demonstrated in the stool of the breast-fed infants of the undernourished mothers. Also the concentration of serum IgG and IgA antibodies to E. coli O antigens were similar in the Pakistani and Swedish mothers. The serum IgM antibody levels of the Pakistani mothers were higher, however, presumably due to a higher frequency of infections. It was noted that the milk production decreased considerably upon the hospitalization of the healthy and well-to-do Swedish mothers. The small milk volumes of the undernourished Pakistani mothers suggest that the lactation failure observed was mainly due to inadequate milk flow and not to decreased milk quality. The results indicate the necessity of studying the nutritional, psychological and social factors responsible for low milk yield and add yet another reason to stimulate prolonged breastfeeding. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/779597/
Abstract: The evolution of vitamin K, from a dietary deficiency in birds to a postribosomal modifier of prothrombin in man, has been a fascinating scientific saga. Its antivitamin, the oral anticoagulant drugs, has been a powerful probe both of vitamin K action and of drug interactions. These agents have emerged from a limbo of clinical therapeutics to become a light of human pharmacology. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/779574/
Abstract: The premise that measures used to lower the plasma lipids in patients with hyperlipidemia will lead to reductions in new events of coronary heart disease (the Lipid Hypothesis) should be reconsidered today as a result of several recent reports of large-scale double-blind drug trials in the United Kingdom and in the United States. To that end, the published evidence that bears on tests of the hypothesis by dietary and drug interventions is reviewed, and the conclusion reached that the hypothesis has not yet been adequately tested. A phased program is described that will prepare the ground for a fuller and more definitive trial of the premise in the future: the first steps must be to establish that a combined diet/drug regimen in large numbers of adult male hyperlipidemic patients is acceptable and essentially harmless and that during an observation period of several years a high rate of adherence to the regimen can be attained. Any advice to the general public to make large dietary changes now is considered premature. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/780324/
Abstract: Eighteen children who have received kidney transplants within the last three years at the Hopital des Enfants Malades in Paris provide material for this survey. We try to find out how these transplants effect the way the children live, and the main psychological problems that they create. This new way of life is characterized by an explosion of vitality, a certain liberation from prior restraint and the possibility of activities which up to then had been difficult or forbidden. However, the necessity for the child to be watched regularly, to attend the hospital for examination, to follow a special diet, to take immunodepressive drugs remind him that he is not cured. Consequences of corticotherapy and the growth retardation remain essential problems for some of them. The child will have to cope with this complex situation which also creates difficulties to acquire independence. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/779891/
Abstract: This article describes the major activities carried out since 1959 in the field of pediatrics and child care in Cuba. In particular, it notes the improvements made through establishment of a national health system and through the participation of community organizations (the Federation of Cuban Women, Committees for the Defense of the Revolution, associations of small farmers, and trade unions) and shows how perinatal, infant, and childhood mortality have been significantly reduced. As of 1973 perinatal mortality had fallen to 27.9 deaths per 1,000 live births, infant mortality to 27.4 deaths per 1,000 live births, preschool mortality to 1.2 per 1,000 children, and school-age mortality, to 0.4 per 1,000 children. This report also cites data on available physical and manpower resources, and outlines a large range of activities linked to a Comprehensive Child Care Program undertaken in 1967. This program, in which newborns are enrolled upon leaving the maternity, seeks to encourage breast-feeding, to promote the activities of well-baby clinics, to provide special examinations for malnourished infants, to provide health care for preschool and school-age children, to promote pediatric medical visits to the home, to assist with camps for asthmatic and diabetic children, to provide pediatric services at pioneer and other camps for schoolchildren, to carry out health education activities, and to combat communicable disease. In particular, activites to prevent communicable disease appear responsible for a good part of the progress achieved to date. As a result of these activities malaria and diphtheria have been eradicated, poliomyelitis has been overcome, and the incidences of tuberculosis, tuberculous meningitis, tetanus (among both newborns and children under 15), and acute diarrheal disease have been substantially reduced. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/779620/
Abstract: The major concepts presented in this review can be summarized as follows: 1. There is a multidirectional continuum of anesthetic states--some represented by CNS excitation and others by depression. 2. The reticular activating system is influenced by all anesthetics; some inhibit its action (stage III) and some hyperexcite the system resulting in a function disorganization (stage II-C). 3. Some agents traverse both excitation and depression, diethyl ether (I, II, III). 4. Others induce only stage II--catalepsia, e.g. nitrous oxide, ketamine, gamma-hydroxybutyrate, alpha-chloralose, phencyclidine, trichlorethylene, and enflurane. 5. Others induce no stage II but progress directly from stage I stage III, e.g. halothane and barbiturates. 6. Cataleptic agents may induce further CNS excitation manifested by seizures, e.g. gamma-hydroxybutyrate, phencyclidine, ketamine, alpha-chloralose, trichlorethylene, and enflurane. 7. The functional definition of surgical anesthesia is: a stage induced by a drug that makes the subject relatively unresponsive to painful stimuli and amnestic. Thus, the subject does not respond during surgery and cannot recall what happened afterwards. This state can be achieved by functional disruption of CNS systems by marked stimulation or depression. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/780287/
Abstract: Plasma levels and urinary excretion of pindolol were measured in each of two groups of eleven subjects in order to compare the absorption of the drug when administered alone in the fasting state, and either with food or Binaldix. The data were analyzed according to a one-compartment model with first order absorption. No significant differences in absorption of pindolol were obtained in each study. Food appeared to increase the speed of absorption of pindolol leading to a slightly earlier and higher maximum plasma concentration, but this observation appears to be of no clinical relevance. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/779805/
Abstract: The sources of the scientific information used over the past several years by the Joint FAO/WHO Meetings on Pesticide Residues in carrying out toxicological evaluations are classified systematically according to compound and subject for the first time in this paper. It is hoped that those engaged in the toxicological assessment of pesticide chemicals, for the purpose of standardizing pesticide tolerances or for developing criteria of acceptability, will profit from this classification. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/780183/
Abstract: The characteristics, daily routine of life, and symptom patterns of 100 patients with a radiologically proven duodenal ulcer were compared with 100 controls. This confirmed that ulcer pain occurred periodically with attacks and remissions, could be relieved by antacids, vomiting, and avoiding fatty food, but was made worse by worry. The anatomical site was usually epigastric but other sites were common. Pain was unaffected by diet or a change in the seasons and had no constant relationship to meals. It occurred during the day in all of the patients and at night in 88%. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/780408/
Abstract: Although this is our Bicentennial year, effective measures to insure food safety date back less than a century. The first efforts toward reform were begun by Accum in England early in the nineteenth century, but they did not bear fruit there--in even a beginning form--until 1875, when Parliament passed the Sales of Food and Drug Act. Legislation came even later in the U.S.--not until the first Pure Food and Drugs Act became law in 1906, largely due to the unswerving efforts for almost twenty years of Harvey W. Wiley. Today, the scientific approach is applied in developing criteria for judging the safety of food and for regulations to insure that healthful, safe food reaches the consumer. Amendments to this law in 1938 and 1958 have further strengthened the protection the public is provided in its food supply. Today, the substances on the "GRAS" list are being examined individually to determine their safety when used in foods. However, the legalistic invoking of absolutes, as in the Delaney Clause of the 1958 amendments, goes beyond the limits of common sense. The challenge is to insure the benefits of science and technology without the loss of basic individual freedom. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/780409/
Abstract: The author reviews the literature indicating the beneficial effects of a diet high in fiber and the detrimental effects of highly refined carbohydrate intake, which characterizes the present Western diet. Reduction in serum cholesterol and stimulation of peristalsis can be demonstrated by incorporating beans in the diet. In studies with male volunteers, serum cholesterol has been lowered, despite a high-fat or sucrose diet, and an investigation with rats is cited in which substitution of beans for wheat starch decreased intestinal transit time. The author points out the difference between "crude fiber," figures for which are available in food composition tables, and "indigestible food residue"; he urges that the latter phrase replace the terms "fiber" and "rough-age." 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/781175/
Abstract: Skin tests are important aids in the management of patients with inhalant allergy. Their usefulness will be increased if these basic principles are kept in mind: (1) Scratch test should be sufficiently deep, (2) Antigen extracts used for intradermal tests should be fresh enough to insure their activity, (3) Two control tests should be used each time tests are done, (4) Hydroxyzine and promethazine may diminish skin reactivity; therefore, negative skin tests should not be relied upon until repeated in the absence of such medication, and (5) Skin tests for food allergy are quite unreliable, whether positive or negative. Food allergy is best studied by means of elimination trial diets. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/781439/
Abstract: A prospective, controlled, double-blind study was designed to evaluate the effect of steroid treatment on the natural history of Bell's palsy. Fifty-one patients were included in the study between 1972 and 1974. The patients were evaluated and started on treatment within two days of onset of Bell's palsy and followed for six months. Treatment was given in randomized double-blind fashion and consisted of either vitamins or a total of 410 mg of prednisone plus vitamins in descending doses over 10 days. The recovery of facial motor function was determined by three physicians who had no knowledge of the treatment received by the patients. They examined photographs of the patients taken six months after onset of paralysis in eight positions of facial function and categorized them as to complete fair, or poor recovery of facial function. These results of this evaluation were submitted to the biostatistician who broke the treatment code. The results of this study demonstrate no statistically significant beneficial effect of steroid therapy upon recovery from Bell's palsy. Factors considered included the patients' age, sex, the presence of pain, ageusia, hyperacusis, diabetes, hypertension, the progression and degree of palsy, the results of nerve excitability and salivary flow tests, and the time at which recovery was first noted or became complete. Bell's palsy remains without a proven efficacious treatment. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/781416/
Abstract: Pure red cell aplasia is a selective aplasia of the marrow erythroid cells. Unlike aplastic anemia, the marrow has a normal cellularity and the patients generally have normal leukocyte and platelet blood counts. The congenital form of the disease occurs in the firlst 1 1/2 years of life and is often responsive to corticosteroids. The acquired form may be secondary to infections, drugs, chemicals, or hemolytic anemia (aplastic crisis). In these cases it is often acute and self-limited with cessation of the infection or drug ingestion. It may also be secondary to systemic lupus erythematosus, rheumatoid arthritis, acute severe renal failure, severe nutritional deficiency, or diverse neoplasms, and may remit with treatment of the primary condition. When a thymoma is present, it should be resected since a remission is produced in 29 per cent of these patients. The remaining patients have an acquired primary form of the disease that tends to be chronic and in some cases may have an immune pathogenesis. A cytotoxic immunoglobulin inhibitor of the marrow erythroid cells or erythropoietin has been described and these patients may respond to prednisone and/or to cytotoxic immunosuppressive drugs such as cyclophosphamide and 6-mercaptopurine. Pure red cell aplasia appears to be more common than the literature has revealed and has stimulated much investigation into an immune pathogenesis for marrow failure. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/797220/
Abstract: The diagnosis of multiple sclerosis is frequently made with undue haste and without a firm basis. A false positive diagnosis is made in about 20 to 30% of the cases originally labeled as multiple sclerosis. The proportion of false positive diagnosis is probably still higher in countries where this disease is less frequent. An exhaustive investigation (neurological, clinical, neurorradiological, isotopic, etc.) is necessary before accepting such a diagnosis. This is particularly important because many of the lesions which can masquerade as multiple sclerosis are amenable to medical or surgical treatment. The prevalence of multiple sclerosis varies widely throughout the world, with a very definite preference for the white race. This difference seems to be caused, at least in part, by dietary habits. Lack of breastfeeding and excessive consumption of cow's milk during infancy is postulated as an important factor in the appearance of multiple sclerosis later in life. A lack of essential fatty acids (and may be of certain minerals and vitamins) in such a diet during pregnancy and childhood may result in the synthesis of abnormally unstable myelin. This underlying deficiency in myelin composition may be the substrate on which immunological factors act to produce the disease. The breakdown of this unstable myelin may be initiated by a variety of factors; natural decay of abnormally weak bonds in proteolipids, viral infection, immune reactions or even trauma. Immune reactions can explain, at least in part, the onset and the course of the disease, and probably immunodeficiency is the most important factor. Demyelination, once it starts, may continue until all abnormally formed myelin is destroyed, or until the building up of immunological defenses can stop the process. It follows from this that prevention of multiple sclerosis should be based mainly on dietic measures which ensure a sufficient supply of essential fatty acids, minerals and vitamins, during pregnancy and childhood. Breast feeding is probably the most important preventive factor. Skin pigmentation, either natural or from exposition to sunshine also seems to act as a preventive factor, and its mode of action deserves further investigation. Treatment of multiple sclerosis should be based on the improvement of immunological defenses, the elimination of possible allergens and saturated fats from the diet, and on the administration of sufficient amounts of essential fatty acids and of other various elements. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/797236/
Abstract: Plasma renin concentration (PRC), plasma aldosterone concentration (PAC), renal plasma flow (RPF) and glomerular filtration rate (GFR) have been studied in 19 patients who had received a renal allotransplant. Group 1 consisted of 7 normotensive and group 2 of 12 hypertensive patients. Bilateral nephrectomy was performed in all patients; all were on a fixed daily sodium intake, and no antihypertensive agents were given. No significant differences were found between the groups in age, time after transplantation or dosages of prednisone. PRC and PAC were normal in all but one patient in group 1 and two in group 2. In these three patients a slight elevation of PRC was measured. After one hour in the erect position, a significant increase was measured in PAC, but not in PRC in both groups. After 6 days on a 10 mEq sodium diet, PRC and PAC increased significantly in both groups. After a further 6 days on the diet plus 150 mEq sodium daily, significant decreases in PRC and PAC were measured in both groups. No differences were detected in PRC or PAC between groups 1 and 2 either before or after the two dietary periods. RPF was significantly lower in the hypertensive group, whereas no significant difference was found in GFR between the groups. No significant relationship could be demonstrated between blood pressure (BP) and PRC or PAC, and PRC and PAC were not correlated to each other. RPF was significantly correlated to mean BP and PRC in the normotensive group but not in the hypertensive. It is concluded that PRC and PAC are normal in most patients with posttransplant hypertension, whereas the RPF is decreased. It is suggested that an abnormal regulation of renin secretion plays a role in the sustained elevation of BP after renal allotransplantation. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/797223/
Abstract: Detailed biochemical analyses of peroxidases in saliva, plaque and gingival exudate samples were carried out in view of the preliminary findings that the peroxidase activity of centrifuged oral fluid was considerably higher in the xylitol group than in the fructose or Sucrose groups. Chromatographic experiments revealed the activity which was increased due to the intake of xylitol, to be attributed to the involvement of the salivary lactoperoxidase, and not to enzymes formed in plaque or leucocytes. There were no significant differences between the sugar groups in the concentration of thiocyanate ions (mean 92 mg/l) and ionized iodine (mean 1.6 mug/l), but the concentration of ionized fluorine in saliva was lower in the xylitol group (0.128 mg/l) than in the other groups (0.150 mg/l). There were no clear differences in the salivary redox potential between the sugar groups. It is evident that various sugars selectively affect the enzyme and other production of the salivary glands. Xylitol-induced elevation of the salivary lactoperoxidase activity and the cariostatic properties of xylitol may partly be interrelated phenomena due to the antibacterial properties of lactoperoxidase. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/797260/
Abstract: This is a review of papers on ocular manifestations of systemic diseases published, in essence, during the period from October 1, 1974 to September 30, 1975, with emphasis on papers that may contain knowledge of interest to optometrists. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/797391/
Abstract: Twenty-two mineral elements are known to be essential for animal life. These are calcium, phosphorus, sulphur, potassium, sodium, chlorine, magnesium, iron, iodine, copper, manganese, zinc, cobalt, molybdenum, selenium, chromium, tin, vanadium, fluorine, silicon, nickel and arsenic. Naturally occurring and man-made dietary imbalances of many of these elements and their interactions with other minerals are described and their functions and requirements by farm animals are outlined. The nature and importance of metabolic interactions among the mineral elements are discussed and the important concept stressed that there is no single minimum requirement or safe tolerance of a particular mineral, but a series of such minimum requirements and safe tolerances depending on the extent to which other minerals with which it interacts is present or absent from the diet. Radioactive tracer elements are shown to be of great value in the determination of mineral nutrient availability to the animal and for following mineral metabolic movements in the body. They are also shown to have considerable potential for the diagnosis of mineral imbalances. Various in vivo and in vitro techniques, involving both radioactive and stable tracers developed for the early diagnosis of mineral deficiencies are described and the strengths and weaknesses of such techniques in comparison with standard biochemical tests, are discussed. The need for further critical studies with isotopic tracers in the detection and diagnosis of mineral imbalances is emphasized. The main types of biochemical criteria used in the diagnosis of mineral deficiencies and excesses are given, with appropriate examples of their use. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/797297/
Abstract: The therapeutic possibilities for psoriasis are multiple; they are based on experience and on empiricism and are harmless for the patient, or on the known pharmacodynamic action which limit their use. It should be remembered that psoriasis is not incurable, since it can be treated. But the definitive curative treatment will be discovered only when the cause of the disease is discovered. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/797679/
Abstract: A comparative historic evaluation reveals an astonishing world-wide relationship between prenatal acceleration, i.e. secular changes of birth-weight and percentage of "large babies", of distinct population groups, and their sugar consumption. They seem to be "connected" as they are regularly "conjoined" (HUME [46]). A statistically highly significant correlation between these two phenomena was established for Switzerland and Germany. The assumption of a causal relationship was confirmed by the abrupt development of growth acceleration together with the rapid increase in the per capita sugar consumption observed in an experiment-like situation in certain Canadian Eskimo populations in recent years. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/797491/
Abstract: The absorption of oral digoxin preparations has been a topic of much concern during the last 5 years. The completeness of digoxin absorption is proportional to the area under the serum concentration time curve and to the urinary excretion of digoxin after single doses. During chronic therapy the completeness of absorption is proportional to these values and also to the steady state serum concentration. Determination of absolute bioavailability of a given digoxin preparation requires a comparative study using intravenous digoxin as a standard. Oral digoxin solutions are incompletely absorbed, but have biological availability greater than or equal to that of tablets. The absorption of digoxin tablets depends upon their dissolution rate which in turn is related to drug particle size. Digoxin tablets with small drug particles have rapid rates of dissolution and can be absorbed as completely as oral solutions. The bioavailability of digoxin from tablets can be influenced by changes in gastro-intestinal motility, malabsorption syndromes, and by co-administration of food or other drugs. New regulations now insure that all marketed digoxin tablet preparations have satisfactory bioavailability. Problems with biological availability at present are unlikely to account for unexpected clinical results during digoxin therapy. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/798150/
Abstract: The relationship of vitamins to cancer is very complex. Three types of interactions are possible: the effect of vitamins on tumor growth, the effect of tumors on vitamin metabolism, and the effect of vitamins on chemical carcinogens and anti-tumor chemotherapeutic agents. The significance of vitamins with particular references to vitamins A,B-complex and C, in cancer has been reviewed. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/797486/
Abstract: During the initial shock or 'ebb' phase of injury, body glucose (serum glucose concentration X glucose space) is significantly increased but mass flow to peripheral tissue is only slightly altered. During the 'flow' or hypermetabolic phase of injury, mass flow of glucose is markedly increased, related to the extent of injury and directed primarily by increased sympathetic nervous system activity. Increased hepatic gluconeogenesis provides glucose which is converted to three-carbon precursors in the periphery and returns to the liver for reconversion to new glucose, utilising the Cori and alanine cycles. Increased ureagenesis is a consequence of skeletal muscle amino acids contributing to this cycle system. This energy shuttle system produces heat, and the rate of six- to three-carbon cycling correlates closely with the increased oxygen consumption of the injured patient. The glucose cycle may be altered by hormonal administration, food intake, exercise, weight loss, pharmacological manipulation and infection, but the basic reset in hepatic glucose production and energy demands in the injured patient appears essential for the inflammatory response and tissue repair. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/797497/
Abstract: Drugs are usually given orally. They are not absorbed to any extent from the stomach but may be absorbed very rapidly from the small intestine. Thus factors influencing the rate of gastric emptying may alter the rate of absorption of most if not all orally administered drugs. Food, hormones, posture, peritoneal irritation, severe pain, gastric ulcer, diabetes and other metabolic diseases, as well as drugs such as alcohol, anticholinergics, narcotic analgesics, ganglion blocking drugs, antacids and metoclopramide all influence the rate of gastric emptying and they will, in turn, change the rate of absorption of another drug. In most instances, increasing the rate of gastric emptying and gastro-intestinal motility increases the rate of absorption of a drug but, for digoxin and riboflavin, increased gastrointestinal motility is associated with a decrease in the rate of absorption. Delayed drug absorption due to altered gastric emptying usually results in therapeutic failure, especially if the drug has a short biological half-life. At present it is not possible to predict accurately the magnitude and clinical relevance of all drug absorption interactions. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/797680/
Abstract: A sensitive and simple immunofluorescence test for gliadin antibodies is described, which may be suitable as a screening method for coeliac disease especially in cases with no clear-cut indication for performing a biopsy. In serum samples of 19 from 23 patients (83%) with coeliac disease proved by biopsy antibodies against gliadin could be detected. In a control group of 71 children in whom the clinical diagnosis of another malabsorptive disorder was made gliadin-IF-antibodies were found in only 3 children (4%). With better timing of blood sampling (first sample during a period with gluten containing food and in case of a negative result a second sample after 4-8 days of gluten withdrawal) the sensitivity of the screening test will be improved. The described gliadin-IF-test permits the classification of the antibodies into the different immunoglobulin classes. In each child with a positive result IgG antibodies against gliadin were detected. In 9 respectively 4 of the 19 patients with IgG antibodies IgA- respectively IgM-antibodies against gliadin were also found. Antibodies against at least one cow milk protein were identified in nearly all (91%) coeliac patients and in half (49%) of the patients with other malabsorptive disorders. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/798110/
Abstract: The effect of anabolic steriod treatment on maximum oxygen intake, mile run time, skin fold thickness, body weight, and elbow flexion and knee extension strength was studied. Twenty-one male college students, ages 19-33, engaged in an interval running program six days a week over a three week period. Each subject supplemented their diets with one half gram/kilogram of body weight of 90% protein powder. A double blind design was used for the administration of the steriod treatment with each of the subjects in the treatment group receiving six mg of stanozolol per day. Pre and post treatment tests were administered for each of the dependent variables. There was improvement at the .05 level in the oxygen uptake of both treatment and control groups. For the other dependent variables, the differences between pre-treatment and post-treatment values were not statistically significant. Differences between the steroid and the control groups were not statistically significant for any of the dependent variables. When young male adults are engaged in an endurance training program, steroid treatment does not appear to have any effect on the development of endurance or strength, or on the percent of body fat, 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/798718/
Abstract: After mentioning the principal morphological, cultural, physiological, biochemical, enzyme and serological characteristics of Vibrio parahaemolyticus (a facultative halophilic bacterium and the aetiological agent of food poisoning caused by the consumption of fish products) a description is given of its ecological aspects, geographical distribution, and potential enteropathogenicity for man, with general information on its isolation and identification. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/798555/
Abstract: The Authors expose data of 14317 proofs on the salmonellosis and propose a new method of struggle and a concentration of the data by provice laboratories. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/798488/
Abstract: Increased renal prostaglandins activated by beta-catecholamines could produce renal tubular sodium wasting and angiotensin pressor resistance observed in Bartter's syndrome. We therefore measured plasma renin activity (PRA), aldosterone and prostaglandin A (PGA) by radioimmunoassay, and body composition by isotope dilution prior to and following beta-adrenergic blockade with propranolol (200 mg/day for 4 days) and prostaglandin synthesis inhibition by indomethacin (200 mg/day for 4 days) in a patient with Bartter's syndrome on a 250 meq sodium diet. After the administration of propranolol, body weight increased 3 kg, daily urine sodium decreased within 24 hours from 230 to 64 meq, and urine potassium from 102 to 45 meq, but PRA and the aldosterone level remained elevated. With the administration of indomethacin, body weight increased 5 kg, daily urinary sodium decreased within 24 hours to 11meq and urine potassium to 16 meq, PRA (normal less than 3 ng/100 ml/hour) decreased from 55 to 4.3 ng/ml/hour, plasma aldosterone (normal less than 8 ng/100 ml) from 74.1 to 3.6 ng/100 ml, and whole blood PGA (normal 546 +/- 307 pg/ml) decreased from 1,390 and 945 to 86 pg/ml. After the administration of propranolol or indomethacin, exchangeable sodium, total body water, extracellular volume and plasma volume all increased from less than to greater than predicted, and pressor resistance to angiotensin was normalized. These results suggest that Bartter's syndrome results from beta adrenergic and prostaglandin-mediated proximal tubular rejection of sodium leading to increased distal sodium-potassium exchange. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/806766/
Abstract: In view of the previously reported inverse correlation between the elevated serum growth hormone (HGH) and low alanine in children with protein-calorie malnutrition (PCM), 30-min alanine infusions were performed in five children with PCM and 12-hr infusions in four children before and after therapy. These infusions did not lower basal HGH or improve its glucose suppressibility in untreated PCM, excluding a feedback relationship between HGH and alanine. There was no insulinotropic effect during 30-min infusions, but an improved insulin response to glucose after the 12-hr alanine infusion was found in three of four children before therapy. Plasma glucose rose slightly during alanine infusion in three of five children before treatment, but the magnitude of change was small and the relevance unclear. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/806675/
Abstract: Infantile transmural ulcerative enteritis is a disorder of early infancy characterized by feeding difficulties, intermittent and progressive diarrhea, cachexia, anemia, abdominal distention, and small-bowel dilation which may progress to intestinal obstruction. The pathologic process, of unknown etiology, involves a transmural enteritis with deep undermining mucosal ulceration, not unlike that seen in Crohn's disease, except that granulomas are usually not present. The early stages of the diseases may be reversible if the bowel is simply placed at rest by use of intravenous nutrition. In the later stages of the illness, there is progressive mechanical and functional intestinal obstruction due to inflammatory constriction of the distal small bowel and lack of effective peristalsis through the inflammed segments. The terminal stages are characterized by marked abdominal distention, complete obstruction, septicemia, and death. It is during the period of abdominal distention due to progressive intestinal obstruction that surgical intervention is of benefit. A cutaneous enterostomy proximal to the involved segments of small intestine serves to decompress the bowel, to minimize bacteremia, and to allow the distal inflamed intestine to heal. Total intravenous nutrition is mandatory for a period of several weeks until there is healing of the distal small bowel and closure of the enterostomy. In all surviving infants, bowel function has returned to normal and there have been no long-term sequelae or recurrences. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/806674/
Abstract: Transient hepatic secretory obstruction manifested primarily by chemical evidence of cholestasis with a conjugated bilirubin above 2.0 mg/100 ml occurred in eight of 19 neonates and infants receiving total parenteral nutrition. The incidence of cholestasis was greater in the premature than full-term infant. Prospective determinations of conjugated bilirubin and 5' nucleotidase are essential to detecting cholestasis before jaundice becomes obvious. These tests are more sensitive than serum alkaline phosphatase which normally rises after birth and during periods of accelerated osteoblastic activity. Preliminary data indicate that the 5' nucleotidase is the most sensitive indicator of secretory obstruction and may become elevated in patients with a normal direct bilirubin. The etiology of hepatic cholestasis during total parenteral nutrition is unknown but is presumed to be caused by interference with hepatocellular enzymes controlling bile secretion; immaturity of these enzyme systems increases the risk of secretory obstruction. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/806807/
Abstract: Parenteral alimentation is often complicated by Candida albicans infection which may be fatal. This study investigated the effect of alimentation fluid (Aminosol) on C. albicans' growth in vitro. It was found that concentrated Aminosol (1400 millisomoles) maintained C. albicans in a viable state but inhibited replication. Dilution of alimentation fluid to physiological concentrations (300 milliosmoles) with either saline or aged pooled normal sera promoted in vitro growth of C. albicans which was equivalent to that obtained in BHI broth and was slightly less than that obtained in Sabouraud's broth. The effects of fresh sera with full complement activity were also investigated. In fresh sera appropriately diluted with physiological saline, some clumping of the yeasts was observed and all formed germ tubes. Growth as defined by budding or the formation of hyphae was inhibited. When Aminosol was diluted to 300 milliosomoles with fresh sera, all yeasts were noted to be in clumps with germ tubes as well as continually growing hyphae. Growth was approximately equal to that seen in Aminosol similarly diluted with saline. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/806873/
Abstract: A circular was sent to eight clinics and 36 cases of children with extensive resections of the small intestine are reported. The reasons for the resections of the intestine were atresia and stenosis in the largest number of cases, then volvulus and lastly necrotizing enteritis. The residual intestine was measured with the measuring tape in only eight cases. The method of measurement in the other cases was not given. Surgery was unilateral in 26 cases and bilateral in ten. Surgical measures to slow passage were not used. The most frequent single causes of death were sepsis or pulmonary complications. The cause of death was a true malabsorption in only two cases. The main difficulties in the postoperative phase are ensuring adequate parenteral uptake of calories and the complications due to cava-catheter sepsis. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/806871/
Abstract: The function of the small intestine before and after extensive resection is dealt with on the basis of infant metabolism under normal and pathological conditions. As a result of the changed absorption conditions in such children, application of parenteral feeding, stepwise establishment of oral feeding using the building-up and cure diets which are available and compensation of long-term losses are necessary. The feasibility of testing the changed absorption conditions is mentioned. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/806875/
Abstract: The fundamentals of parenteral nutrition and the possibilities of oral nutrition with chemically defined diets are described. The possibilities are discussed against the background of a review of nutritional pathophysiology and the use of the available preparations set out. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/806882/
Abstract: Continuous nasojejunal drip is a common method of feeding low-birthweight neonates because it is relatively free of complications and provides nutritional requirements. We recently encountered a case of duodenal perforation caused by a feeding catheter. Recommendations are made that can prevent this complication in the future. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/806872/
Abstract: For various reasons extensive resection of the intestine had to be undertaken in five neonates. The lengths of the residual intestine were 33, 40, 49, 60 and 65 cm. Two children died of sepsis, one of pneumonia, one is still living after six years and one is still alive after four months. There is a danger that the cava catheter may give rise to sepsis. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/806874/
Abstract: Clinical experience over the last 20 years in neonates and infants with the short-gut syndrome is reviewed. In this period there has been considerable development with respect to the problem. Today one can say that, basically, all children (even those with only a few cm of small intestine) can be kept alive by means of parenteral nutrition. Further life is only possible and meaningful if the child can adapt itself to the new situation. This is usually no problem if more than 50 cm of small intestine remains. Surgical methods of slowing the passage through the gut and of improving absorption have proved failures; transplantation of small intestine offers new prospects. For children to adapt to peroral feeding it is important that this be introduced stepwise with "gradual" diet. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/806916/
Abstract: We investigated the concept that the enhanced development of DMBA-induced mammary adenocarcinomas in rats fed a high fat diet might be mediated by prolactin via the hypothalamic-pituitary system rather than by a direct effect of a fat on the mammary gland itself. Prolactin levels in serum from female Sprague-Dawley rats fed high (20%) and low (0.5%) lard diets for 2 and 5 mo were measured by radioimmunoassay. The levels in rats at proestrus-estrus on high-lard diets were significantly higher (250 ng/ml) than those on a low lard diet (100 ng/ml). At metestrus-diestrus prolactin levels were approximately 50 ng/ml regardless of diet. Thus, the tumor-enhancing effect of a high fat diet may be indirect and mediated by neuro-hormonal changes in the hypothalamic centers controlling prolactin synthesis and secretion. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/806918/
Abstract: T and B lymphocyte rosetting values were obtained for 18 children with kwashiorkor, marasmus, or nutritional edema. T cell values were subnormal in all malnutrition classes, but were lowest in children with kwashiorkor. Four of five malnourished children who were sensitized with 2,4-dinitrochlorobenzene (DNCB) before refeeding failed to respond to repeated subsequent challenges; five of six children who were sensitized after refeeding responded strongly to the first challenge. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/806976/
Abstract: From 1956 to 1969 we adopted a generous approach pertaining to the quantity of parenteral fluid required for paediatric surgery. Since 1970 we have changed our policy, and we now give smaller quantities during surgery and postoperatively. This article presents the calculated parenteral fluid regimen as implemented for general paediatric surgery in the Tygerberg Hospital. Our reasons for this change are indicated. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/806978/
Abstract: A classification of malnutrition which has gained international acceptance is presented. The physiological and pathological basis of the clinical changes, as well as the metabolic, biochemical and immunological consequences of protein energy malnutrition are discussed. Also presented are aspects of treatment of the hospitalised patient and recommendations for rehabilitation and prevention. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/812455/
Abstract: All but 17 cm of small intestine was removed in the neonatal period from a child now aged 4 years. Satisfactory growth was achieved by 2 years of age without prolonged intravenous hyper-alimentation. On return to his home environment progress was not maintained, and by 4 years of age, mental and physical retardation were found. Cholestyramine resin was beneficial in reducing stool bulk but had no substantial effect on fat absorption. Compensatory changes in the remaining bowel are recorded. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/812376/
Abstract: The effects of parenteral hyperalimentation on postoperative gastric function were studied in eleven patients undergoing abdominal aortic surgery. Positive nitrogen balance was achieved in hyperalimented patients. Hyperalimentation was found to augment gastric mucosal regeneration, allowing for more physiologic secretory patterns and the maintenance of the protective gastric mucosal mechanism. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/812409/
Abstract: Man does not catabolize ascorbate to CO2, whereas the monkey does catabolize ascorbate and ascorbate sulfate to CO2 when these compounds are given orally. However, it takes the same length of time to produce frank scurvy in both man and the monkey, thus indicating that the comparative storage, rate of use, and mode of metabolism of ascorbate is similar in both species. Preliminary feeding and isotope studies conducted on monkeys are in agreement with the fact that only a small amount of labeled ascorbate or ascorbate sulfate equilibrated with body stores. These results are in agreement with published ascorbic acid requirements of 10 mg/kg body weight. In our experiments, 250 mg/day had to be fed to a 10-kg monkey to completely clear all signs of scurvy and return blood ascorbate levels to normal. Ascorbic acid administered intravenously to monkeys appears to equilibrate completely with the ascorbate pool(s). Ascorbate sulfate was found to be a urinary metabolite of both ascorbic-1-14C acid and ascorbic-6-14C acid fed orally to monkeys. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/812456/
Abstract: A randomized evaluation of 44 malnourished patients, wherein 24 were used as controls and 20 received immediate postoperative parenteral hyperalimentation, indicated that five days of nutritional therapy had no notable effect on the morbidity and mortality experienced by the malnourished patients, in comparison to a third, nonmalnourished group of similar patients. Although central venous nutrition was safely administered without complications immediately after cardiac operations, clinical efficacy of this therapy could not be demonstrated. The inability to establish a dose-response relationship, and hence administer the "optimum" amount of nutrients, may have accounted for the negative results reported. Although preoperative malnutrition is associated with a poorer result after cardiac surgery, postoperative repletion of nutrients appears to be ineffective in reversing this relationship. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/812508/
Abstract: The purpose of this study was to test the effectiveness of various doses of disodium ethane-1-hydroxy-1,1-diphosphonate (EHDP) in an experimental rabbit model of athero-arteriosclerosis designed by Hass et al. (Amer. J. Pathol., 49 (1966) 739). This model, which involves the feeding of a hypercholesterolemic diet in conjunction with the administration of moderately high doses of vitamin D and nicotine, results in an extensive arterial disease with complicated lesions. EHDP was administered daily by subcutaneous injection at levels of 0.25, 1.0 and 2.5 mg/kg body weight beginning with the initiation of the atherogenic regimen. Results of chemical and histopathological analyses after 8 and 12 weeks of treatment indicate the following: (1) There was a dose-related inhibition of arterial calcification at 8 weeks. At 12 weeks, only the 2.5 mg/kg dose of EHDP resulted in reduced calcification. (2) EHDP administration appeared to influence arterial lipid-containing plaque formation in medium sized arteries at 12 weeks. There was no apparent effect of EHDP administration on serum cholesterol and triglyceride levels. (3) EHDP, at a dose of 2.5 mg/kg/day, inhibited the vitamin D induced hypercalcemia. (4) EHDP administration at 2.5 mg/kg/day almost totally inhibited the thromboarteritis accompanying this disease. (5) The data thus indicate that if arterial calcification is inhibited, the other morphological effects of this treatment regime are also inhibited. This effect occurred even though serum lipid levels were unaffected. The data therefore emphasize the role of calcification in the pathogenesis of this type of experimental atherosclerosis and perhaps in human disease as well. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/812704/
Abstract: Postoperative parenteral nutrition can only be optimally effective if the characteristics of post-traumatic metabolism are taken into account. Two main possibilities are discussed for the carbohydrate component of parenteral nutrition during this phase: glucose with high doses of insulin or non-glucose carbohydrates (sugar substitutes) possibly in a suitable combination with glucose. The risks as well as the technical and organisational problems involved in the use of them are discussed and the authors prefer the second of the two alternatives. Possible side effects of non-glucose carbohydrates are pointed out and it is shown how these can be avoided by observing dose guidelines. So far a combination of frucose : glucose : xylitol in a ratio of 2 : 1 :1 with a total dose of 0.50 g/kg/hour has been studied most thoroughly. This combination normalises the fat metabolism and improves glucose tolerance without requiring exogenous insulin. Experiences with this combination as well as individual non-glucose carbohydrates on operated patients have been given continuously for up to 7 days and in some cases even for several weeks. No side effects, no deviations from a steady state and no abnormal changes of the laboratory values occurred. The authors are of the opinion that non glucose carbohydrates are necessary if the facilities for frequent blood sugar controls are not available. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/812706/
Abstract: Maltose infusion were performed in rats and normal human subjects. Utilisation of maltose in a rat is fairly good. Blood glucose and lactic acid concentrations are elevated during the high dose of maltose in the rat and renal loss is limited to less than 5% of the total amount infused. In the human subject no steady state is reached during the 4 hour continuous infusion and the renal loss of maltose and glucose was 31% of the intravenous load. In contrast to the rat the blood glucose concentration in man did not increase. The metabolic utilisation of maltose in man was however demonstrated by a decrease in inorganic phosphate and serum free fatty acid concentration. It is concluded that maltose is not suited as a fuel for parenteral nutrition because of its low metabolic rate in the human being. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/812754/
Abstract: Using the 14C carbonate method of McFarlane, the synthesis rates of albumin and fibrinogen were determined in four patients with protein-losing enteropathy, in one patient during the recovery phase after severe protein malabsorption and in nine control patients. The following results were obtained: (1) The synthesis rates of albumin and fibrinogen were significantly increased in all patients studied. (2) All patients had low serum albumin levels. The increase in albumin synthesis rate was remarkably uniform in all patients, the average being 645 mg/kg/day or 2.7 times the mean control value. (3) Plasma fibrinogen levels were normal in all patients. The fibrinogen synthesis rate varied over a wide range from 42.1 to 199.3 mg/kg/day, i.e. 2-8.5 times the control value. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/812817/
Abstract: Body electrolyte and water balance as well as elimination of toxic metabolites depend on intact renal function. Acute azotemia of either prerenal, renal, or postreanal origin requires adequate fluid and electrolyte theraphy. Based on physiological regulation of protein metabolism and nitrogen balance parenteral nutrition of uremic patients with stable renal function is described. Sufficient caloric supplementation is required. Parenteral treatment to improve nitrogen balance in these patients is achieved by infusion of essential amino acids including histidine. The possible therapeutic value of keto-analogs is suggested by recent studies. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/812814/
Abstract: The suitability of maltose for parenteral nutrition was investigated in metabolically healthy volunteers. A solution containing 20% of maltose was infused intravenously for four hours using three different doses (0.125 g/kg; 0.25 g/kg; 0.5 g/kg BW/h). Following cessation of the infusions the laboratory controls were carried on for four more hours. The infusions of maltose were tolerated without any complications. However, only when using the lowest dosage a steady state in blood concentration of maltose was reached, i.e. in the case of 0.125 g/kg BW/h. The results show that in humans the metabolic capacity for maltose is limited. The glucose concentration in blood remained almost unaltered during maltose infusion, while the serum insulin concentration was slightly elevated. A further sign for metabolism of maltose was the decrease in free fatty acid concentration. Because of the low metabolic capacity for maltose the urinary loss (in the form of maltose and glucose) is high with greater infusion rates and amounts to 20-30% of the intravenous load. A greater part of the sugar excreted in the urine consists of glucose, despite an almost normal blood glucose concentration. Considering the results of the experiments with volunteers it is concluded that maltose is not suited for intravenous therapy. Because of the low metabolic capacity of the human organism the renal losses are too great. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/812819/
Abstract: A review of the infusion therapy of acute emergency cases in internal medicine is give. The infusion therapy of hepatic coma, diabetic coma, thyrotoxicosis, acute renal failure, acute hemorrhage, acute cerebral ischemia and exogenous poisoning is described. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/812818/
Abstract: In terms of a short review indications and applications of infusion therapy in gastroenterology (concerning vomiting, fistulas, diarrhea, ileus and peritonitis) are discussed. It is pointed out that in cases of water and electrolyte deficiency a rigid regimen is not reasonable. If possible a balance should be obtained. Parenteral nutrition is applied in obstructions of the upper gastrointestinal tract and in maldigestion and malabsorption. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/812705/
Abstract: Urinary catecholamine excretion and thyroid hormone blood level were studied in 16 patients following severe cerebral trauma. Increased excretion rates of epinephrine and norepinephrine were found. There was no significant difference in the catecholamine excretion when compared with generally traumatized patients. The relationships between catecholamine excretion, increased metabolic rates, and negative nitrogen balance indicate that in patients with a midbrain syndrome there exists an additional diencephalic metabolic factor, which leads to a rise in fat oxidation and perpetuation of catabolism. Early high caloric parenteral nutrition seems to inhibit the initial increase of catecholamine excretion and thus protects the body from an unnecessary breakdown of its own reserves. If the course is classified according to neurological stages, it can be shown that patients with a traumatic apallic syndrome in poor condition have a high increase of catecholamine excretion. Secretion of thyroid hormones is not influenced significantly by cerebral trauma. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/812820/
Abstract: A review of parenteral infusion therapy in internal medicine is given. The principles of total parenteral nutrition with fatty acids, ethanol, glucose, non-glucose-carbohydrates (fructose, sorbitol, xylitol) and amino acids are discussed. Problems such as indication and contraindication, metabolism and utilization of the applied substances as well as adverse effects are dealt with. The practice of infusion therapy and its form of application are shown on the basis of the author's own experience. Finally a scheme for total parenteral nutrition is presented. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/812852/
Abstract: A case of congenital chliride diarrhoea with functional ileus, early diagnosed in a premature infant of North-Africa parentage, is described. A short review is given of the clinical and biological manifestations of the disease in the newborn. Especially, the influence of parenteral therapy on the course as well as on the development of potentially fatal complications is discussed. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/812882/
Abstract: Serum concentrations of 3,3',5'-triiodothyronine (reverse T3, rT3) were measured in adult patients with several systemic illnesses whose serum total and/or free T3 were low, serum total T4 was low or normal, and free T4 was either normal or elevated. The mean serum rT3 was 76, 46, and 77 ng per 100 ml in patients with hepatic cirrhosis, chronic renal failure, and acute febrile illnesses, respectively; the values in patients with hepatic cirrhosis and acute febrile illness were significantly higher than, and values in patients with renal failure did not differ significantly from, the mean serum rT3 (41 ng per 100 ml) in normal subjects. The mean serum rT3 in another group of patients from Calcutta, India, who had severe protein calorie malnutrition (PCM), was 53 ng per 100 ml; it was significantly higher than the corresponding value, 22 ng per 100 ml, in the same patients after feeding treatment. Mean serum rT3 in patients with systemic illnesses was not so high as that (151 ng per 100 ml) in the normal newborn, who also has low serum T3 and normal or high T4. High serum rT3 in patients with systemic illness could not be attributed to increased serum protein binding of rT3; whenever studied, the dialyzable fraction of rT3 was not decreased but actually increased. The mean serum-free rT3 was 450,207, and 366 pg per 100 per 100 ml in patients with hepatic cirrhosis, chronic renal failure, and acute febrile illnesses, respectively; each of these values was significantly higher than the corresponding value, 98 pg per 100 ml, in normal subjects. The mean serum free rT3, 516 pg per 100 ml, in newborn cord sera was similar to that in patients with hepatic cirrhosis but was higher than that observed in patients with chronic renal failure and acute febrile illnesses. High serum rT3 and low serum T3 in patients with PCM improved to normal or towards normal after feeding treatment. Since the peripheral metabolism of T4 is normally the predominant source of T3 as well as rT3 in man, our data, demonstrating reciprocal changes in serum rT3 and T3 and no consistent change in serum T4, suggest that body metabolism of T4 may be so altered in systemic illness that the conversion of T4 to rT3 may be increased while that to T3 is decreased. The mechanism or the biological significance of such a diversion of T4, from the normally occurring conversion to highly potent T3, to the generation of poorly calorigenic rT3 in systemic illness, is not clear at this time. The data in patients with PCM demonstrate, however, that such a change in the metabolism of T4 can be reversible. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/812887/
Abstract: A study was undertaken of patients on a regimen of total parenteral nutrition comparing the nitrogen balance, energy substrates, blood amino acids, immunoreactive insulin, and immunoreactive glucagon levels during the sequential infusion of nonprotein calories as either glucose alone (glucose system) or 83% as Intralipid (Pharmacia Fine Chemicals, Montreal, Canada) and 17% glucose (lipid system). These nonprotein calories were administered with a constant background of amino acids (1 g/kg per day), vitamins, and minerals. Each system was infused for a week at a time and the order of infusion randomized. In some patients whole blood arteriovenous (A-V) levels of amino acids were measured across forearm muscle. During the glucose system there was a significantly higher level of pyruvate, lactate, alanine, and immunoreactive insulin, consistent with glucose being the principal source of energy. In contrast, during the lipid system there was a rise in free fatty acids and ketone bodies with a fall in insulin, suggesting that lipid was now the principal source of energy. Despite these two very diverse metabolic situations the nitrogen balance with both systems was positive to a comparable degree after the establishment of equilibrium. Correspondingly, A-V differences of whole blood amino acid nitrogen showed uptake by muscle to an equivalent degree with both systems. Clinical studies indicated that the lipid system as defined herein could be infused by peripheral vein for up to 43 days with resultant weight gain, elevation of serum proteins, and healing of fistulae. Our studies suggest that for both metabolic and clinical reasons exogenously infused lipid is a suitable source of nonprotein calories. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/819391/
Abstract: We report the pharmacological inhibition of secretions of the gastrointestinal tract for the prevention and management of pancreatic and duodenal fistulas. Nasogastric aspiration to remove gastric secretions and decrease motility and an anticholinergic drug, a carbonic anhydrase inhibitor and intravenous hyperalimentation to inhibit secretions were used to prevent pancreatic fistulas. Patients with established duodenal and/or pancreatic fistulas received local treatment consisting of lavage of the fistulous tract and skin protection in addition to the parenteral therapy. Three cases of successful prevention of pancreatic fistulas and three cases of managemtnt of duodenal fistulas are presented. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/819609/
Abstract: A new method of treatment for non arterial upper G.I. bleeding is described. It consists of continuous flow instillation of a liquid which has vaso-active, neutralizing, and dressing properties. This treatment was successful in 86% of the cases. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/819608/
Abstract: The original method of continuous low rate enteral feeding is used in cases of nutritious deficiencies and is found to be of value in view of its scientific and technical advantages. Its value is demonstrated by 95% satisfactory results. Furthermore, its low cost, handiness and ease of operation make it accessible to any medical or surgical center where it may have a preferential if not exclusive place. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/819710/
Abstract: Maltose (10% solution) was infused continuously over 2 h (0,25 g/kg BW/h) in maturity onset diabetics (n=9) and in non-diabetic patients (n=9) serving as controls. During and after infusion changes of parameters measured (blood glucose, IRI, FFA, lactate, pyruvate, uric acid, acid-base status, ketone bodies) were minimal. A significant rise in blood-glucose was observed only in non-diabetics. Serum maltose concentrations increased continuously up to 150 mg/100 ml during infusion and were nearly identical in both groups. Post infusion serum maltose decreased slowing during 7h and urinary maltose excretion was found for 18 h. During the first 3 h controls excreted 4% of infused maltose (1.3% as maltose and 2.7% as glucose). In diabetics excretion of carbohydrates was higher and more variable: 14(1.1-35.9) %. The slight metabolic changes, especially in diabetics and the possibility of supplying more calories are favorable effects of parenteral maltose. However slow elimination and increasing urinary losses depending on dosage and conditions of i.v. maltose application account for the limited utilization of the disaccharide in men. Unless further investigations will have been done maltose cannot be recommended as a sole substitute for carbohydrate in parenteral nutrition. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/819571/
Abstract: A food-poisoning outbreak caused by Bacillus cereus occurred in a Finnish industrial plant in January 1975. Eighteen of the 36 persons who ate a lunch including boiled rice, meat and vegetables became ill. The disease pattern was similar to previously reported short incubation time B. cereus food-poisonings associated with cooked rice. The median incubation time was two hours, the main symptoms being nausea, abdominal pain and vomiting. Rice and certain seasonings were the contaminated raw materials. Gas chromatographic fatty acid analysis of a bacterial cell was used as a diagnostic method as well as to identify a certain strain of B. cereus. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/819782/
Abstract: There is evidence of the epidemiological role of nutrition in the pathogenesis of various forms of human diseases; several components of nutrition are known to have a carcinogenic effect in man. In terms of epidemiology, however, alcoholism is most important which through the development of malnutrition enhances the risk of carcinosis of the upper gastrointestinal tract particularly in smokers. Nutritional deficiences have an influence on the incidence of cancer of the stomach, cervix and thyroid. Overnutrition favours the development of certain forms of cancer such as malignant diseases of the colon, pancreas, kidney, mamma, ovary, endometrium and prostate. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/819829/
Abstract: A decreased metabolic rate has been associated with decreased ventilatory response to hypoxia and hypercapnia, and also with starvation. We fed a 500-calorie carbohydrate diet with supplemental electrolytes, designed to simulate alimentation by usual intravenous fluids, to seven normal subjects for 10 days to determine the effect of semi-starvation on metabolic rate and ventilatory responses. By the 10th day metabolic rate was significantly decreased, and hypoxic ventilatory response decreased to 42% of control (P less than 0.05). In two subjects, hypoxic ventilatory response was virtually abolished at day 10. These changes reversed toward normal with refeeding. The decrease in hypoxic ventilatory response response was significantly (P less than 0.01) related to the decrease in metabolic rate. Hypercapnic ventilatory response, measured as the slope of the ventilatory response to hypercapnia, decreased slightly but not significantly. The decrease in hypoxic ventilatory response seen during semi-starvation may contribute to the hypoxemia and respiratory failure subsequent to caloric restriction. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/819788/
Abstract: The relationship between the carbohydrate content of foods and the serum lipid levels are demonstrated in connection with the hypothetical relation between increased sugar consumption and myocardial infarction. The increase in serum triglyceride levels in healthy subjects after a diet rich in carbohydrates in influenced by several factors such as energy balance, absolute quantity of carbohydrate, individual response of the test person, etc. With the aid of a dietary formula trial in healthy adults, saccharose consumed in usual quantities is shown to cause no increase in triglyceride or cholesterol levels. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/819824/
Abstract: A testing system is recommended that permits (1) reduction in cost and time requirements, (2) analysis of gene and chromosome mutations in germ and somatic cells, (3) evaluation of mutagenic effects of a chemical substance and its metabolites, (4) guarantee of the minimal variability between separate experiments and (5) evaluation of the dose--effect relationship. The testing scheme has two parts, a screening system and a complete test system. The screening system consists of two tests: (a) test on microorganisms with a metabolic activation in vitro (or test on Drosophila) and (b) cytogenetic analysis of mammalian bone marrow. The complete test system includes 4 tests: (a) test on microorganisms with a metabolic activation in vitro and in vivo (or test on Drosophila), (b) dominant-lethal test on mammals, (c) cytogenetic analysis of mammalian bone marrow and (d) cytogenetic analysis of the culture of human lymphocytes. The decision whether the selected chemical substance is to be tested according to the screening or complete test system is based on: its occurrence in the population, its economic (or medical) significance, and on information concerning its mutagenic, carcinogenic or teratogenic effects. The group of chemicals to be tested according to the screening system involves: industrial chemicals, organophosphate insecticides, drugs used by a limited group of patients. The group of chemicals to be tested according to the complete test system consists of pesticides, food additives, drugs in general use as well as chemicals of the former group, if at least one of the screening system tests detected some genetic effect. Genetic risk estimation should be governed by the following considerations. A positive effect identified in any test of the testing system must have a direct bearing on man. Quantitative evaluation of mutagenic risk from a chemical substance can be determined by the increased level of spontaneous mutations in the most sensitive test on the basis of an average dose of, and exposure to, the given chemical substance in the human population. Chemicals showing a mutagenic activity in any of recommended tests are subject to the quantitative evaluation, they are usually widespread and because of their social or economic value they cannot be replaced or excluded. Genetic aspects require that any substance with a mutagenic activity be considered dangerous and its use should be prohibited or it should be replaced by another non-mutagenic chemical, or at least the contact with it should be limited to persons of non-reproductive age. From the hygienic aspect it is recommended, as a temporary measure, to evaluate a chemical mutagen and to prohibit or limit its use if its average population dose produces a 0.1% or greater increase in the spontaneous level of mutations. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/819997/
Abstract: Enterocutaneous fistulae after abdominal surgery are not uncommon, and their occurrence has in the past been associated with a high morbidity. Recent advances in the management of this condition are reviewed and a practical scheme of management is outlined. The advent of total parenteral nutrition and elemental diets has to a large extent negated the need for early surgery, and unless complicating factors are present, treatment is initially conservative, anticipating spontaneous closure in the majority of patients. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/820006/
Abstract: The elemental diet is a precisely formulated, predigested liquid diet capable of providing adequate nutrition for growth, development and tissue repletion in normal and debiliatated patients. It can be used as the sole means of nutritional support for a variety of gastrointestinal problems provided that there is an adequate length of small intestine with functioning mucosa. The elemental diet also can be used to supplement either intravenous or other enteral feedings to prevent a chronic hypocaloric state. Although safer and less complicated to administer than its intravenous counterpart, there are, nonetheless, certain important policies which must be rigidly observed to assure successful treatment and to prevent complications. Similar to intravenous hyperalimentation, administration is best carried out under the auspices of experienced and interested personnel who have a specific interest in surgical nutrition. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/820007/
Abstract: Parenteral hyperalimentation, when used free of associated morbidity, usually produces a dramatic reversal in the deteriorating clinical course of the patient. However, most patients who need nutritional support have at least a minimally functioning gastrointestinal tract. By using a continuous enteral gavage of a chemically defined diet through a 4F tube, the same positive nitrogen balance, weight gain and accelerated wound healing can be achieved. As with parenteral hyperalimentation, there are avoidable iatrogenic morbidities. A policy and procedure for safe and effective enteral hyperalimentation, results of clinical experience and a simplified method for assessing achievement of a therapeutic goal are presented. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/820091/
Abstract: Hepatic metabolic balances derived from arterio-hepatic venous substrate differences and hepatic blood flow exhibited similar results during fructose and glucose infusion (10 g/5 min, 0.5 g/kg X h) as compared to those from the isolated perfused organ. Accordingly, in account of hepatic utilization of fructose glucose homeostasis and secretion maintained during fructose infusion. However, the smaller insulin response during fructose infusion did not reduce hepatic free fatty acid utilization to such an extend as to increase pyruvate oxydation. Thus, splanchnic production of lactate and pyruvate descending from fructose was enhanced leading to a 7-fold increase of arterial lactate concentration. Since hepatic venous lactate to pyruvate substrate ratios did not change, the rise of the arterial redox couple could not be due to hepatic fructose metabolism. According to the findings from the isolated perfused organ, fructose seemed to be phosphorylated at a rate which was found to be 2-3-fold that of glucose as calculated from splanchnic utilization rates. The rapid ATP-breakdown was followed by an increment in splanchnic oxygen consumption. The larger energy demand during fructose infusion seemed to be satisfied by an enhanced endoxydation of free fatty acids. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/820093/
Abstract: According to their physiological importance magnesium and zinc have to be infused during complete parenteral nutrition. 8 male volunteers obtained a continous infusion of a solution of carbohydrates combined with amino acids over a period of 12 hours. In this period 18-24 mval Mg and 9-12 mg Zn were infused. In another experiment 7-10 vmal Mg were applicated, but no zinc. Magnesium and zinc concentrations in serum and urine were determined by atomic absorption spectrophotometry. The results gained in this period showed a positive balance with the applicated amounts of magnseium and zinc. The excretion of both elements in urine were extremely high while no significant changes in serum concentration were detectable. In our opinion the infusion rate could be reduced especially for zinc. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/820092/
Abstract: 15 min. after intravenous administration of fructose (10 g/5 min, 0,5 g/kg/h) the hepatic uric acid production in healthy volunteers increased from 0,07 mg/100 g X min to 0,52 mg/100 g X min. After one hour the enhanced uric acid production was 0,3 mg 100 g X min. The enhanced uric acid production was accompanied by an increased hepatic phosphate uptake. The highest value was 13 mumol/100 g X min. During the control period the liver released small amounts of phosphate into the hepatic vein. The increased hepatic uric acid output correlated with an enhanced renal clearance, therefore the peripheral venous uric acid concentrations remained unchanged. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/824860/
Abstract: In an acute clinical trial 12 patients with essential hypertension on a standardized sodium and potassium dietary intake were given either amilorid (10 mg daily, orally) or potassium canrenoate (200 mg daily, i.v.) for two days. Either treatment caused a significant decrease in blood pressure and an increase in plasma renin activity (PRA). The aldosterone excretion rate was elevated only in the patients receiving amilorid. Furthermore potassium retention and sodium loss were more pronounced in the amilorid group. Long-term treatment (up to 14 weeks) with amilorid (10 mg daily), spironolactone (200 mg daily) or chlortalidone (50 mg daily) significantly lowered the blood pressure of patients with essential hypertension. Plasma potassium and PRA rose significantly in patients receiving either amilorid or spironolactone. However, after three weeks of therapy the mean PRA returned to the pretreatment level in patients on amilorid while it remained persistently elevated in the spironolactone group. On the other hand, chlortalidone caused potassium loss and persistent elevation of PRA. A possible relationship between the changes in plasma potassium levels and PRA in response to diuretics is discussed. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/824884/
Abstract: 24 diabetic patients, well controlled on Glibenclamid and a standard diet, were randomised for a doubleblind study with Diclofenac und placebo. After 3 days during which the fasting blood sugar and urine sugar were determined, 12 patients received Diclofenac, 12 patients placebo. Determinations of blood and urine sugar of the following 4 days and comparison of the two groups did not reveal any differences. Mean values of blood sugar of the first three days compared with the blood sugar of days of medication did not show significant changes. Considering this investigation it can be assumed that there is no interaction between Glibenclamid and Diclofenac. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/825168/
Abstract: The paper describes the international nutrition problem, with references to previous crisis in the world. It is stated that the present situation cannot be compared to the historical famines in the past. The causes and magnitude of the problem are quite different. The information available on the nutritional situation in the world at present is scanty, erratic and contradictory. The criteria used for such evaluation is not uniform, and this is the reason of the differences in the estimation of the magnitude of the problem. According to the analysis of 101 surveys conducted in 59 developing countries during the last 10 years, in which more than 260,000 children below 5 years were examined the percentage of cases of severe forms of malnutrition was of 2.3% and of moderate forms of 18.8%. However there are some areas where severe forms represent 10 or 20% of children examined. Taking only the most representative surveys (25 out of 59) a rough estimation of the total number of malnoursihed children in developing countries gives the figure of 10 millions of severe forms and 90 millions of moderate forms. The paper makes references to mortality trends in developing countries compared with the trends observed in developed countries. It is the view of the author that the recent dramatic decline on mortality in developing countries is due more to public health action, particularly the existence of new drugs, than to any significant improvement in the standard of living, including nutrition. A distinction is made on the differences between the biological needs of nutrients and the social satisfaction produced by food intake. In fact the biological needs are much less than the average consumption of the affluent society. It is suggested that in order to raise the standards of nutrition in developing countries it would perhaps be necessary to moderate the excessive consumption among other things, of proteins of animal origin in developed countries. Finally the author strongly recommend to intensify the action on nutrition at international, national and family level. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/824994/
Abstract: Two food surveys determined the areas of consumption and the ethnic groups involved as well as the way and motivations for using Spirulina algae (Oscillatoria platensis) in Chad. More than 400 homes were visited in February (dry season) and October (end of the rainy season and period after the millet harvest). Consumption is limited to a restricted proportion of the population in the Kanem region. Among the Kanembu group (the leading consumers of Spirulina), frequencies of use vary between one and six melas out of ten. The amounts consumed per person during a meal, in the sauce accompanying millet, are between 9 and 13 g. Variations in consumption linked to ethnic, social and seasonal factors are discussed. With regard to food value, the very high proportion of sand considerably reduces the protein content in the product sold on the market. An average ration of sauce containing "di" helps cover about 10 to 12 p. 100 of the protein requirements of an active adult man, and the algae by themselves contribute 5 to 8 p. 100 of these requirements. A comparison with the leading sauces consumed in Kanem reveals no superiority for Spirulina. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/825169/
Abstract: While we have definite ideas regarding the requirements for energy and proteins, we have to rely on statistical data whether these requirements are actually met. In spite of the common unreliability of these data, they serve as an useful indicator of the general situation. The supply of nutritional energy represents the average energy requirement for the populations of most developing countries. However, the insufficient supply of high grade protein remains the main nutritional problem of most of these countries. To solve these problems, the following possibilities exist: --Ensuring a sufficient calorie supply so that valuable protein is not wasted for the production of energy --Improving the supply of protein-rich staple food --Supplementing of food with local protien-rich products --Introducing lifestock only when the foodstuff available cannot be used directly for human consumption -- Improving the staple food, introducing higher grade strains of cereals --Producing protein-rich vegetable mixture from local foodstuff --Utilization of synthetic amino acids and of new protein sources. To meet the requirements for calories, and especially for hgih grade protein, is possible only by international and interdisciplinary efforts of all experts concerned with nutrition in any way. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/824924/
Abstract: Hepatic bile from a series of patients with non-functioning gallbladders treated with an intravenous infusion of fat emulsion during prolonged preoperative fast was compared with that of controls. After the fat emulsion the bile was found to contain rhomboid tetragonal crystals whereas that of controls did not. It also contained polygonal crystals which showed Maltese crosses in polarized light. These crystals were also absent in the controls. Bile from cholecystectomized patients did not contain rhomboid cholesterol crystals after the infussion of fat but the occasional presence of polygonal crystals was noted. In both series of patients the infusion of fat resulted in increased lithogenicity of bile. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/824951/
Abstract: Literature reports of the contributions of clinical pharmacists to patient care are reviewed. The topics covered are: clinical pharmacist functions in the drug use process, specific clinical activities of clinical pharmacists, and specialty areas of clinical pharmacy practice. It is concluded that more research needs to be done on the effectiveness and legal basis of clinical pharmacy services, and that adequate methods of payment for clinical pharmacy services must be developed. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/824981/
Abstract: The effects of a complete parenteral feeding of long duration were studied in patients hospitalized in an Intensive Care Unit for an affection requiring this type of alimentation or presenting a state of irreversible prolonged coma. We used the Trive 1000 (EGIC Laboratories) which is a soya oil emulsion combined with essential amino-acides and with Sorbitol. The caloric intake was completed by glucose-solutes mixed with the indispensable vitamins andoligo-elements. Repeated blood-balances, biopsies of the panniculus adiposus and takings of organs (whenever a death occured) were carried out. The after-effects of this type of alimentation were studied in the blood and in the tissues: 1 = On the level of the lipometabolism, the absence of significant modifications in the different categories of lipids and plasmatic lipoproteins shows the quality of the injected fat elimination. On the tissular level, the collecting of alimentary fats is studied from the point of the lipase - lipoprotein activity and the quantitative and qualitive variations of the main classes of lipids. 2 - On the level of the blood biological constants, certain irregularities were noticed, the meaning of which is being discussed. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/825171/
Abstract: Energy-calorie malnutrition (ECM) is the commonest nutritional problem in developing countries in Africa: 0.5-5% of the population under 6 years of age suffer from the severe forms and 4-40% from the moderate forms. It is possible that as many as two-thirds of the preschool children in developing countries in Africa suffer from some EPM (protein-calorie malnutrition). The recent Sahelian drought and civil wars in some countries in Africa have increased the size of the problem and the severity and prevalence of EPM in several parts of Africa. The aetiological factors of EPM in Africa include shortage of calories and protein, as well as increasing and recent tendency to abandon too early breast feeding, sensory deprivation, psychological and emotional trauma, ignorance, superstition and cultural taboos. The evidence available at the moment does not clearly indicate that effects of EPM on learning and behaviour are permanent, although the functions of the brain in the acutely malnourished child are defective. Malnutrition impairs immunological capability and surveillance, and hence augments the mortality and morbidity of infections such as measles especially by impairing cell-mediated immunity and, to a lesser extent, synthesis of immunoglobulins. Endemic goitre (prevalence varies from 2 to 90% in various age groups) in several parts of Africa is due to either iodine deficiency (Ethiopia) or to the goitrogenic effect of cassava diet (Zaire and Nigeria). Deficiencies of vitamins A, B complex and D have been reported in several parts of Africa, albeit sporadically. Dietary intoxications include: a) aflatoxins which may be important in the pathogenesis of hepatic carcinoma, one of the commonest neoplasms in developing countries in Africa; b) chronic cyanide intoxication from cassava (manihot) food derivatives, which on circumstancial evidence seems to be an important aetiological factor of a crippling neurological disease, the tropical ataxic neuropathy in Nigeria and Tanzania; c) organophosphate insecticides. The rarity of certain diseases in the Africans may be related specifically to the African diet, especially the high fibre and low animal fat content of many of the African diets. Examples of such diseases are atherosclerosis in the non-hypertensive non-diabetic population, cancer of the large bowel, varicose veins and perhaps multiple sclerosis. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/824995/
Abstract: The acceptability of various culinary products based on the algae spirulina was tested by questionaire: formulas rich in proteins, soups, omelets, desserts. Spirulina are little appreciated in France due to offensive color, smell and taste. Tomato and chocolate are the most acceptable flavors. Lyophilisation is preferable to atomisation, and discoloration using alcohol is preferable to the acetone method. The hydrolysate obtained, having neither the smell nor the taste of algae, is excellent. Nitrogen, sodium and potassium balances were recorded in 5 undernourished subjects fed via a gastric tube. The spirulina provided respectively 15 p. 100 (1 subject), 30 p. 100 (2 subjects), and 50 p. 100 (2 subjects) of the protein ration. There were no intestinal problems. The spirulina did not modify the investigated balances. However, faecal nitrogen increased to 2.08 g (compared to control period values, 1.33 g and 1.51 g). The various coefficients: digestibility, nitrogen retention and protein utilization did not vary. In man as in animals, nitrogen retention is satisfactory, but digestibility is diminished. Uric acid did not vary in the urine, but serum values increased slightly. Ingestion of spirulina in small doses even over a long period should be tolerable in the normal subject. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/825170/
Abstract: Children with protein calorie malnutrition have impaired immune functions. Immunoglobulin levels are low in children with severe protein deprivation, but are not affected in moderate or borderline protein malnutrition. Specific antibody response is either normal or reduced depending on the antigen used. Involution of the thymus dependent lymphatic system and severe impairment of the cell-mediated immune reactions are prominent features in children with kwashiorkor. Furthermore, in vitro granulocyte dysfunction in those children has been demonstrated as far as chemotaxis, microbiocidal activity and quantitative leucocyte iodination is concerned. There is a delayed chemotactic response in the early incubation intervals; there is decreased killing of S. aureus, E. coli and C. albicans after 60 minutes of incubation, and there is less iodination by phagocytising granulocytes of kwashiorkor children than in control experiments, indicating an impairment of the myeloperoxidase-peroxide-iodide mediated killing system. The possible clinical implications of these in vitro findings are briefly discussed. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/825210/
Abstract: From July 1969 to December 1975, 86 patients with 100 fistulas required one or a combination of three modern nutritional aids: central intravenous hyperalimentation; the peripheral intravenous, lipid-amino acid-carbohydrate system; and elemental, nutritionally complete liquid diets. Of the fistulas, 81 closed spontaneously, and in 11 operative closure was attempted; 89 fistulas healed. Eight patients died (9.3%). Before 1969, in an earlier comparable group of patients who had not received such nutrition, the mortality was 40.0%. Fistula drainage and sepsis were controlled. Abscesses were drained. Skin was protected. The most successful way of identifying the nature and origin of a fistula was by instillation of radiopaque liquid into the external opening. Prolonged fistula drainage occurred with distal bowel narrowing and inflammation; previous irradiation to the area; underlying granulomatous bowel disease; bowel adjacent to skin; and foreign bodies in the fistulous tract. Operative closure (resection) was necessary only for distal obstruction and wide breakdown or complete disruption of an anastomosis. Patients who did require operation were in a better nutritional state to withstand operation after receiving specialized nutritional support. Adequate calories and amino acids afforded healing and secretory and mechanical rest for the gastrointestinal tract. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/825207/
Abstract: Insulin, a primary metabolic hormone, plays a dominant role in the regulation of food intake. An increase in the level of circulating insulin produced by its prandial release from endogenous stores is associated with the state of satiety. On the other hand, an increase in the insulin level produced by its exogenous administration, as well as by its excessive and prolonged release in certain pathological states or during the period of nocturnal overeating, paradoxically gives rise to the sensation of hunger. This differential effect of endogenous and exogenous insulin is analyzed in view of experimental and clinical evidence concerning the principal mechanisms in the regulation of food intake. These include the interrelation of central and peripheral glucosensitive systems, the involvement of the enteroinsular axis, and the effects on these regulatory mechanisms of the physiological state produced by changes in circulating insulin levels. The essential role of the vagus nerve in mediating the hunger and satiety induced by the lack of excess of glucose for cellular oxidation places the short-term glucostatic control in the periphery where the insulin is primarily acting. A unifying hypothesis concerning the role of insulin in the regulation of good intake is proposed and its clinical implications suggested. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/825408/
Abstract: The Authors have examined 10 cases of severe malnourished children (7 cases of kwashiorkor, 2 cases of marasmus, 1 case of marasmic kwashiorkor). Experiments were carried in order to detect endotoxemia by means of Limulus test, bacteremia with blood cultures and possible effects of plasma on leucocyte migration by Leucocytes Migration Agarose Test (LMAT). The relationship between severe malnutrition, endotoxemia and leucocytes migration has been discussed. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/825264/
Abstract: During their first exposure to a non-familiar situation, food deprived rats eat only for a short time. During their second exposure, the rats eat for a longer time. Rats treated with benzodiazepines before their first exposure showed no enhanced food intake during the second exposure. This effect did not seem related to an acquired taste aversion but more likely could be explained by an impaired retention of the first experience. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/825217/
Abstract: Ten episodes of Torulopsis glabrata fungemia occurring in nine patients with terminal illnesses are described. Eight patients had underlying malignancies and one patient had a plastic anemia. Two episodes of fungemia were considered transient since they were clearly related to the administration of intravenous hyperalimentation (IVH). Most patients were adult women and had solid tumors of the genitourinary tract. Contributory factors were: antibiotic therapy (100%), immunosuppressive drugs (75%), abdominal surgery (63%), IVH (50%), neutropenia (38%), and diabetes mellitus (13%). The clinical course was indistinguishable from a severe bacterial infection. However, endotoxic shock was not observed. The infection was rapidly fatal in four patients. In the remaining five patients, the infection was altered favorably by the discontinuation of infected intravenous hyperalimentation catheters. However, tissue invasion by T. glabrata was found in two of these patients who died shortly thereafter from tumor progression. At autopsy, T. glabrata was identified in tissue sections of the lungs, kidneys, and mucosas of the gastrointestinal and genitourinary tracts. In all cases there was tissue necrosis with a minor inflammatory response consisting of mononuclear cells. To our knowledge, this is the single largest series of T. glabrata fungemia ever reported. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/825411/
Abstract: Total parenteral nutrition at home has been delivered to 12 patients surviving for periods ranging from 4 months to 5 years. The route used is a silicone rubber catheter introduced into the superior vena cava. The mean survival of uncomplicated catheters is 15.8 months, but in 4 patients it is in excess of 28 months. The delivery system is a simple pneumatic infusor set, portable and safe to use, and not requiring complicated electronics. All patients have maintained ideal body weight and have been socially rehabilitated, with two exceptions. Detailed metabolic studies are presented and the data include routine biochemical analyses, liver function tests, liver biopsy results, blood aminograms, the plasma phospholipid fatty acid pattern, the plasma lipoprotein pattern, and blood vitamin and trace element profiles. Based on these findings a nutrient program is recommended and discussed. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/829882/
Abstract: The effect of excessive alcohol intake on the protein requirements and metabolism in normal subjects has not been clearly determined. In this study we measured the nitrogen balance, the hematrocrit, the hemoglobin, the serum albumin, the cholesterol, and the plasmatic amino acids in 7 non-alcoholic subjects of 25 +/- 5 years of age. A comparison was made of a diet containing 0.8 g of protein per k of weight and 40 Kcal per k of weight administered during 11 days with a period of the same length in which the 1.400 Kcal provided during the control period by carbon hydrates was provided by ethanol (200 g). During the alcoholic period no importants changes were observed in the nitrogen balance, a tendency towards greater positivity being registered. There was a decrease in the serum albumin of 4, 69 +/- 0.31 vs 3, 90 +/- 0,32 g/100 ml and an increase in globulin 1,74 +/- 0,70 vs 2,69 +/- 0,22 g/100 ml. The results showed that in a short period of time the excessive alcohol intake in normal subjects does not increase the protein requirements in spite of a decrease in the serum albumin being observed. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/829875/
Abstract: The purpose of the paper is to demonstrate the usefulness of total parenteral hyperalimentation in a lactant, 4 months old patient with ulcerative colitis. At admission the lactant had diarrhea, dehydratation, anemia, malnutrition, and edema in the ankles. Proctoscopy and barium enema, and rectal biopsy were typical of ulcerative colities. Treatment included steroids and azulfidine. Evolution was poor and signs of perforation appeared. Total intravenous hyperalimentation was used and after one month the diarrhea disappeared and the patient gained weight. Ulcerative colitis is rare in lactants and usually appeares a chronic diarrhea. The diagnosis should be based on radiology, endoscopy, and biopsy. Parenteral hyperalimentation is the only treatment that permits to keep the colon at total rest while simultaneously maintaining nutrition. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/830073/
Abstract: Cholestasis has been previously described after long-term hyperalimentation in infants. The present case documents the development of cholestasis in an adult after a relatively short period of total parenteral nutrition (TPN), i.e., hyperalimentation. Other causes for cholestasis, such as exogenous or endogenous hepatotoxic agents or allergic type hepatitis, do not offer an adequate explanation for the changes observed in this patient. The changes observed are consistent with the hypothesis that a taurine deficiency would interfere with bile salt conjugation and form a block at the cellular level. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/830049/
Abstract: The applicability of the energy/protein index (the ratio between the logarithmic transformation of tricipital skin fold and the brachial muscular circumference) is studied. Results obtained in a group of preschool children exhibiting different clinical-anthropometric forms of malnutrition led us to use this index not only for differentiating well-nourished from malnourished children, but also as a criterion for classifying energy malnutrition (including desnutrition and overweight) as well as protein malnutrition and assessing their magnitude. Mean values--with a 95% confidence interval for energy/protein index--were respectively 1,477 +/- 0.029 and 1,324 +/- 0,124 in children with moderate or severe energy denutrition; 1,836 +/- 0,028 in children with kwashiokor; and 1,683 +/- 0,019 in overweight children. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/830074/
Abstract: The dietary intakes of 98 long-stay geriatric patients were measured. These were compared with blood levels of thiamine, pyridoxine, folic acid, ascorbic acid, calcium, phosphate, potassium and albumin. Low leucocyte ascorbic-acid levels were associated with a low intake of ascorbic acid. There was no association between any of the other dietary and laboratory parameters of nutrition. The reasons and significance of these findings are discussed. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/830071/
Abstract: Total parenteral nutrition is of undisputed value in improving and maintaining patients who are otherwise unable to ingest food adequately by mouth or by tube. A relatively simple closed system for the preparation of solutions and their administration permits safe application of total parenteral nutrition at home. Selected patients who otherwise will remain in hospital or die are able to have an acceptable quality of life at home in a good state of nutrition and with freedom from their intravenous solutions for many hours per day. Based on experience with eleven patients maintained on total parenteral nutrition at home, recommendations are made for patient selection, training, total parenteral nutrition composition, and follow-up. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/830063/
Abstract: Bacterial and fungal growth in 10% soybean oil emulsion (Intralipid) and 5% fibrin hydrolysate in 5% dextrose was studied at 4, 25 and 37 degrees C. Staphylococcus aureus, Streptococcus pyogenes, Str. fecalis, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Klebsiella pneumoniae, Escherichia coli and Candida albicans were grown in broth at 37 degrees C, diluted in saline and inoculated into each of the two preparations as well as a mixture of the two. Growth was measured at 24, 48 and 72 hours. In 10% soybean emulsion, all bacteria except S. pyogenes multiplied, but in fibrin hydrolysate-dextrose solution the only organism of those studied to grow was S. aureus. In the hydrolysate-dextrose-lipid mixture, all organisms multiplied except S. pyogenes and P. aeruginosa. C. albicans grew in all solutions tested. While at 4 degrees C, organisms did not multiply. The fibrin hydrolysate-dextrose solutions given by infusion into a central vein for hyperalimentation have been shown to support predominantly fungal growth, and contamination of the solution and ultimately of the indwelling catheter is a constant hazard. Because both bacteria and C. albicans grew equally well in 10% soybean oil emulsion, its use as a caloric source when infused into a central vein may increase the occurrence of sepsis. When this emulsion is used to provide essential fatty acids or calories, it should be given via a peripheral vein, so that a central catheter will not be contaminated. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/830455/
Abstract: This analysis of thirteen cases of lower airway foreign body aspiration in children reveals a high incidence of aspiration into the left main bronchus, and an increased incidence in older children. Early indentification of nonradio opaque foreign bodies such as food and plastic toys is difficult in the absence of a positive history. Suggestions are offered for prevention, early detection, and treatment. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/830309/
Abstract: In a cohort of 50,282 pregnancies 19 children with cardiovascular defects were born to 1042 women who received female hormones during early pregnancy (18.2 per 1000). Among 49,240 children not exposed in utero to these agents there were 385 with cardiovascular malformations (7.8 per 1000). Six children with cardiovascular defects were born to a sub-group of 278 women who used oral contraceptives during early pregnancy (21.5 per 1000). After the data were controlled for a wide variety of potentially confounding factors by multivariate methods, the association between in utero exposure to female hormones and cardiovascular birth defects was statistically significant. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/830569/
Abstract: Alterations in gastric emptying are considered contributory to many sequelae of peptic ulcer surgery. The application of a validated method of firmly tagging solid food has enabled the measurement of the rates and patterns of gastric emptying in normal subjects, subtotal gastrectomy, and vagotomy and pyloroplasty (V&P). Normal persons emptied with a linear pattern at a mean rate of 27.96% per hr. Subtotal gastrectomy patients showed up to three phases in their emptying pattern, which, over all, approximated an exponential pattern with a mean rate constant of 0.030 min-1 and calculated t1/2 of 23.3 min. V&P subjects divided into two groups: (1) slow emptying with a linear pattern and mean rate of 17.64% per hr; (2) rapid emptying with exponential pattern and mean rate constant of 0.039 min-1, t1/2 of 17.7 min. The slow gastric emptying rate and slow passage of chyme through the small intestine in one-half of the V&P group presumably allows greater efficiency of digestion and absorption and may account for the over-all less severe nutritional disturbances after V&P. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/830500/
Abstract: Thirteen patients with stable airway disease were fed a diet high in carbohydrates, and 35 minutes later metabolic and ventilatory effects were observed. The six patients who did not retain carbon dioxide increased their mean respiratory quotient from 0.86 +/- 0.07 to 1.03 +/- 0.04, their mean minute ventilation from 10.3 +/- 3.0 to 12.8 +/- 4.0 L/min, mean carbon dioxide production from 0.23 +/- 0.04 to 0.29 +/- 0.02 L/min, and mean oxygen consumption from 0.27 +/- 0.07 to 0.29 +/- 0.03 L/min (all P less than 0.05). The arterial carbon dioxide tension (PaCO2) did not change significantly from baseline values. The seven patients who retained carbon dioxide responded similarly, except that their mean arterial oxygen pressure (PaO2) increased significantly from 50.9 +/- 4.4 to 57.7 +/- 5.5 torr (P less than 0.05). In addition, the mean PaCO2 increased from 54.5 +/- 6.4 to 54.9 +/- 6.4 torr (not significant). We conclude that the increased endogenous carbon dioxide load resulting from a meal high in carbohydrates is well tolerated by most patients with chronic airway disease. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/830372/
Abstract: Previous reports have shown that endotoxin decreases serum iron in experimental animals. In this study fever was produced in nine female and nine male normal subjects in order to define the temporal and quantitative changes in serum iron and ferritin concentrations. Six volunteers were randomly given bacterial endotoxin (5 ng/kg) or saline intravenously and received the alternative compound a week later. Serial blood samples were drawn at 4-hr intervals for a 24-hr period, beginning when the compound was administered, for the determination of serum iron and ferritin concentrations. The same study was performed with intramuscular etiocholanolone (0.3 mg/kg) or the vehicle, propylene glycol, as a control, but the first blood sample was obtained 9 hr after the compound was given. In addition, blood samples were obtained at 12-hr intervals in six volunteers for 11 days after an intramuscular injection of etiocholanolone. The results showed a significant increase (p less than 0.005 for etiocholanolone, P less than 0.01 for endotoxin) in serum ferritin and a significant decrease (p less than 0.005 for etiocholanolone, p less than 0.001 for endotoxin) in serum iron for both pyrogenic compounds compared with the control compounds. However, the amount of fever and the changes in the iron parameters were greater with etiocholanolone. One episode of induced fever with etiocholanolone effected changes in serum ferritin and iron concentrations that lasted 10 days. Thus this study demonstrated that a single episode of fever in man produced rapid and prolonged changes in serum iron and ferritin concentrations. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/830571/
Abstract: A low residue, fiber-deficient diet has been postulated as the cause of diverticular disease--the commonest affliction of the colon in the Western nations. This condition is virtually unknown in Africans (blacks) who live south of the Sahara, and who have not changed their traditional high residue diet. This paper presents 16 Africans with diverticular disease. A disturbing feature is that 5 of the patients are young, being in their fourth decade, and only 4 are over the age of 60. Their dietary history confirms the hypothesis as to the etiology, and also shows that the urbanization of the South African black has been accompanied by the emergence of diverticular disease, a condition higherto virtually nonexistent in this population. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/830568/
Abstract: Pancreatic and biliary secretion and gastric emptying rates of a liquid test meal (LTM) were determined in normal persons, in patients with subtotal gastrectomy with gastroduodenostomy (STG-BI) or with gastrojejunostomy (STG-BII), and in patients with truncal vagotomy and pyloroplasty (V&P). In all operated persons, rapid gastric emptying diluted intraluminal contents, with consequent abnormally low concentrations of trypsin and bile salts initially, a pattern that was not corrected by addition of intravenous hormones to the meal stimulus. Trypsin output in V&P's after the LTM was significantly depressed to 40% of normal, but was normal in the STG groups. The delay in reaching normal values for trypsin and bile salt concentrations, was more marked in STG-BII owing to sequestration of secretions in the afferent loop. The low luminal concentrations of digestive secretions for the first 60 to 80 min after a LTM are therefore attributable to rapid gastric emptying in all operated groups, and in V&P to a depressed pancreatic enzyme response also. In STG-BII, afferent loop sequestration exaggerates the delay in attainment of normal intraluminal concentrations. The combined disturbance in STG-BII produces greater abnormalities than seen in STG-BI. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/830570/
Abstract: Gastric emptying of a solid meal and serum gastrin concentration were studied in 26 patients with duodenal ulcer disease before and after parietal cell vagotomy (PCV), selective gastric vagotomy with drainage (SGV + D), or parietal cell vagotomy with drainage. PCV had no significant effect on gastric emptying rate, whereas emptying was significantly delayed after SGV + D. The integrated gastrin output 60 to 300 min after the test meal was insignificantly altered after PCV, but significantly increased after SGV + D. It is concluded that the drainage procedure did not normalize the disturbed gastric emptying after SGV. The prolonged hypergastrinemia period after food stimulation may reflect stasis. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/830583/
Abstract: Two patients with cirrhosis and ascites complicated by extensive unilateral pleural transudates refractory to therapy with dietary sodium restriction, diuretics, and repeated thoracentesis were successfully managed by tetracycline-induced pleural symphysis. The intrapleural instillation of this antibiotic prevented the recurrence of the effusion and substantially relieved the patients' symptoms with minimal undesirable side effects. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/830602/
Abstract: Studies of calcium levels in 400 elderly patients in a hospital geriatric unit showed that many patients (42 percent) had hypocalcemia when referred to the unit and that the incidence of hypocalcemia rises proportionately with advancing age; however, in men, the frequency decreases after age 90. Although hypocalcemia is caused by vitamin D deficiency in a number of patients, in most it is caused by malnutrition. The intravenous vitamin D tests is a simple and reliable procedure for differentiating hypocalcemia due to specific vitamin D deficiency from that due to other causes. We suggest that a 15 percent rise in the serum phosphate level after the intravenous administration of 40,000 units of vitamin D3 indicates the presenceof osteomalacia. Little is known about the sequence of development of detectable bone changes and disturbance of serum calcium, phosphate, and alkaline phosphatase levels in the natural course of osteomalacia. Early treatment of osteomalacia is simple and very rewarding. No effort should be spared in detecting it as soon as possible. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/875519/
Abstract: The recognition and treatment of obesity has undergone marked changes in the past two decades. Along with the abandoning of the concept of exogenous obesity, the physician has discovered a variety of developmental, psychological, pharmacologic, socioeconomic, neurological, and genetic roots for the syndrome. The clinician has also found medical treatment modalities (fasting and behavior modification) that hold much more promise than traditional supportive relationships with dietary consultation and anorexogenic medications. Surgical treatment also, ileojejunal bypass, is gradually emerging as a treatment of choice for certain well-motivated, super-obese people for whom all other treatment modalities have failed. Future research into central serotonergic mechanisms offers hope that we can begin to know what it is that turns on hunger, turns off appetite, and regulates weight in such a stable manner over such a long period of time. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/875152/
Abstract: We studied the postoperative course of 20 consecutive patients with T10 to 12 flank incisions, half of whom had intraoperative bupivacaine intercostal nerve blocks. The nerve block patients required less pain medication (p less than 0.001), ambulated 3 days earlier (p less than 0.001) and took a regular diet 2 days sooner (p less than 0.01) than the control patients. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/875462/
Abstract: Fifty-three patients with Wilson's disease were studied with regard to ophthalmologic abnormalities. Of the 35 symptomatic patients initially seen and treated at the Mayo Clinic, 34 (97%) had Kayser-Fleischer rings and 6 (17%) had sunflower cataracts at the time of diagnosis. In patients followed for a year or more, penicillamine therapy resulted in improvement of the Kayser-Fleischer rings in 18 of 20 (90%) patients and total clearing of the sunflower cataracts in 4 of 5 patients. The specific pattern of copper deposition in Kayser-Fleischer rings and the improvement with treatment occurred along four reproducible stages. None of five asymptomatic siblings of patients with known Wilson's disease had Kayer-Fleischer rings at the time of initial study. In one (untreated) of the five, Kayser-Fleischer rings developed 20 months after the initial normal slit-lamp examination. The presence of Kayser-Fleischer rings, and the absence of other ophthalmologic signs (such as nystagmus, cranial nerve palsies, and other movement disorders), can be of great assistance in the diagnosis of Wilson's disease. Once the condition has been diagnosed, specific medical therapy with penicillamine and low-copper diet dramatically improves what would otherwise be an inevitably fatal course. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/875201/
Abstract: Bone scans with 99mtechnetium diphosphonate were performed on 2 patients with gynecomastia induced by diethylstilbestrol therapy for adenocarcinoma of the prostate. Neither patient had evidence of bone metastases but both scans revealed increased isotope concentration over the anterior rib cage at the lateral margin of the chest wall, corresponding in location to the hypertrophic breasts. This observation may be related to similar radionuclide uptake in normal and abnormal female breasts. One should not mistake the finding of gynecomastia for metastases of the ribs. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/875792/
Abstract: Almost any patient may be carried by air, but air transport introduces possible problems associated with the effects of altitude, noise levels, turbulence, and the special environment. Because of these factors it is important, when considering a patient for air transport, to know the type of aircraft to be used, and the flight profile--its duration and expected cabin altitudes. It is essential to carry all equipment (as simple and as portable as possible), drugs, and diets that may be needed and to be sure that all the skills and nursing help needed to deal with any possible problems are available. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/875581/
Abstract: Despite the low occurrence of early laryngeal lesions amenable to Partial Supraglottic Laryngectomy, they form a very interesting and important group of lesions. Timing is important in their recognition, since adequate treatment can then be secured and important functions of the larynx preserved. The draw back in the treatment of these lesions by partial laryngectomy lies in the difficulty in restoring the patient to his preoperative pattern of life. Repeated aspiration pneumonitis becomes a life threatening problem in a good number of such patients. A new method of reconstruction is described here by which the aspiration problem is obviated with the aid of a pedicle flap to line the raw surface of the transected base of the tongue allowing the organ to remain in a position capable of occluding the glottis during deglutition, and at the same time guiding the food along the posterior pharyngeal wall and into the esophagus. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/875876/
Abstract: The plasma content of folic acid was evaluated in 27 patients with advanced renal disease. There were no significant morphologic changes within the erythrocyts of the peripheral blood and bone marrow. The hematologic response of the reticulocyts, hemoglobin and hematokrit were studied after oral treatment with folic acid. There was a significant reticulocytosis at the 5th to the 8th day after initiating the oral treatment. This reaction underlines a definite, mainly nutritional (latent) folic acid deficiency being one cause for the renal anemia in these patients. A subsequent rise of the hemoglobin or hematocrit did not occur. Further possible causes for these clinical data are being discussed. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/875892/
Abstract: Current data show that about 80% of human cancers can be traced to environmental causes. The majority of human cancers are associated with two main etiologic factors: smoking of cigarettes and diet, which account for most of the cancers in the respiratory tract, in the digestive tract, and in the endocrine sensitive and reproductive organs. The evidence for these multifactorial causes is both ipidemiologic and experimental. In recent years a number of lay and professional groups have expressed concern that the microcontaminants in our environment are responsible for cancer in man. Agitation, press releases, and statements before legislative and excutive government departments have made claims for cancer hazards which do not appear to rest on sound epidemiologic or experimental bases, yet these claims hav alarmed and indeed scared the public. Government agencies and industry have spent funds to investigate such claims. It appears that such actions not only divert valuable research funds and efforts into lines which do not seem to be fruitful in leading to a reduction in cancer risk for the main human cancers, but by falsely alarming the public, dilute serious efforts of cancer prevention with respect to the experimentally and epidemiologically established cancer risk. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/875896/
Abstract: Several Federal agencies share responsibility for enforcing laws designed to control human exposures to carcinogens. This enforcement activity often has immense effects on other factors of our environment. Absolute safety is not possible, but increased protection is obtainable. Improvements are urgently needed in our ability not only to detect but also to quantify relative risk. Resources should be directed for maximum overall effect. Relative risk must be quantified if we are to reasonably compare risk and benefit. Examples of the inexactness of current toxicological, epidemiological, and mathematical models for estimating risk due to exposures to DDT, aflatoxinb1, DES, and benzidine are presented. The impact of different laws and regulations applicable to the control of these agents is compared. Reference is made to major programs in toxicological methods for risk estimation. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/876440/
Abstract: Exaggerated natriuresis in response to hypertonic saline infusion occurs with great regularity in patients with documented previous attacks of poststreptococcal glomerulonephritis. Five patients were studied before and after 1 week of dietary sodium restriction in order to examine the possibility that increased extracellular fluid volume might play a role in the response to acute saline infusion. Plasma renin activity (PRA) and PRA responsiveness to sodium depletion were normal, suggesting that extracellular fluid volume was not increased. In all patients, extracellular fluid volume decreased during sodium restriction, as judged by weight loss, cumulative negative sodium balance, small decreases in measured plasma volume, and appropriate increases of PRA and plasma aldosterone concentration. Hypertonic saline infusion provoked exaggerated natriuresis in all patients equally as well after dietary sodium restriction as before. Exaggerated natriuresis in poststreptococcal glomerulonephritis occurs without evidence of chronic expansion of extracellular fluid volume and is not affected by reduction of extracellular fluid volume. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/892578/
Abstract: Endurance swimming times and oxygen comsumption during strenuous exercise were measured in age-paired undernourished rats. The animals received restricted or unrestricted amounts of 27, 15 or 8% casein diets for 10 weeks. Endurance times of energy-restricted animals were similar to that of controls, despite a two-fold weight difference. Endurance time of the protein-restricted group (8% casein) was longer than that of any other group, including energy-restricted groups identical in weight. Oxygen consumption of the protein-restricted group during a non-endurance swim was significantly greater than any of the other groups, but was the same as that of the other undernourished groups during the endurance swin. Oxygen consumption by all undernourished groups was higher than that of controls during the endurance swim. Results of the endurance swimming tests show that restriction of protein or energy intake may influence exercise performance differently and that differences in work performance cannot be explained by differences in body weight. Measurements of oxygen consumption during swimming suggests that the differences in performance are related to altered metabolic requirements resulting from the dietary restrictions. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/892946/
Abstract: The interaction of the drug Mobiletten with the pharmacokinetics of ethanol was studied in 15 probands. In these experiments, the maximal ethanol concentrations in blood were found to be significantly decreased and delayed. The ethanol elimination remained unchanged. The uptake of Mobiletten resulted in a remarkable decrease of the urine volume. The quantitative determination of the ethanol content in the expired air by alcotest technique was not significantly affected. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/892971/
Abstract: Cardiovascular risk factors were determined among two similar groups of telephone executives in Tokyo, Japan and New York City, USA. Both historical and electrocardiographic evidence pointed to a marked excess of coronary heart disease among American executives compared with their Japanese counterparts. In keeping with this finding, the Americans ate diets higher in animal fat, were fatter, and had higher serum cholesterol values but lower triglyceride levels. Mean blood pressures were slightly higher among the Japanese, and showed a greater increase with age. Urinary sodium/creatinine ratios were much higher among the Japanese, suggesting a higher salt intake. Cigarette smoking was more common among the Japanese. A review of other comparative studies between Japanese and Americans indicated that the only risk factors uniformly consistent with the frequency of coronary heart disease in the two countries were dietary fat, obesity, and serum cholesterol. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/892905/
Abstract: Hospital staff members were analyzed with respect to ethnic origin and prevalence of anti-hepatitis B surface antibodies (Anti-HBs). The staff members were categorized into four "risk groups" according to frequency of exposure to blood, patients' speciments, and patient care. Of the total 526 staff members studied, one-half (51.5%) were of North American origin, one-quarter came from Europe (25.9%), and the rest came from Asia, the West Indies, Africa, and Australia. The prevalence of Anti-HBs was lowest among North American staff members (8.1%) and highest among Asians (42.3%) (P less than or equal to 0.05). Low-risk administrative staff had the significantly lowest number of Anti-HBs-positive members (6.1%), whereas low-risk dietary staff (29.6%) and hospital assistants (30.6%) had the significantly highest prevalence of Anti-HBs staff members. In contrast, the high-risk group of laboratory workers and special nurses had only 16.1% of staff members with Anti-HBs. Our results show that ethnic background and socioeconomic conditions have to be considered when various risk groups are compared for the presence of Anti-HBs. The frequency of exposure to blood and patients' specimens or patient care is not the only determining factor in the prevalence of Anti-HBs in health workers. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/892611/
Abstract: IgA class reticulin antibodies were not found in patients with Crohn's disease, ulcerative colitis, and hiatus hernia despite a significant incidence of IgG class reticulin antibodies. None of 56 normal healthy subjects was positive. In contrast, 13 (76%) of the sera from 17 patients with coeliac disease on normal diet were positive for IgA class antibodies as were 19 (20%) of 93 first degree relatives. Seventy-three relatives underwent jejunal biopsy. Grade III (flat) histology was found in 13 and, of these patients, 10 (77%) showed IgA class reticulin antibody in their serum. It is suggested that determination of IgA class reticulin antibodies was a useful test to determine which relative must be biopsied. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/892957/
Abstract: Twenty-seven diabetic patients, nine treated with insulin, nine treated with tolbutamid, and nine placed on diet, were given either pindolol or placebo 5 mg, three times daily during a 6-week period. The following 6-week period those receiving pindolol in the first 6 weeks received placebo and vice versa. Pindolol had no influence on the concentration of blood glucose, free fatty acids, triglycerides, or total cholesterol. The effect of pindolol on carbohydrate and fat metabolism appears to be of no clinical relevance in diabetic patients receiving their usual therapy. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/893301/
Abstract: Elemental iron powders produced by different processes were separated by nitrogen elutriation into fractions based on particle size. The fractions containing fine particles (7-10 micrometer) of electrolytic iron, hydrogen (H2)- and carbon monoxide (CO)-reduced iron, and the whole sample of carbonyl iron (92% less than 11 micrometer) were blended into freshly milled wheat flour and stored at about 21 degrees C. Storing the enriched flour up to 9 months had no effect on the relative biological value (RBV) of iron for rats from each type of iron supplement. Baking bread with flour containing electrolytic, H2-reduced, and carbonyl iron after storage for 10 months also had no effect on the RBV of the iron powders. There was no change in the RBV of iron for rats from flour enriched with electrolytic iron (200 mg/kg) and ascorbic acid (200 and 1665 mg/kg flour) after storage for 1 week and 3 months. The decreases in RBV due to increase in size of particles (7-10 vs. 20-26 micrometer) were significant for H2-reduced iron and CO-reduced iron but not for electrolytic iron and carbonyl iron. The RBVs of elemental iron powders for rats were similar to the values obtained with humans, based on iron absorption after an overnight fast. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/893292/
Abstract: Five different procedures were used to estimate composition of weight loss by six obese individuals maintained on low-calorie regimens: 1) energy-nitrogen (E-N) balance; 2) total body water-nitrogen balance (TBW-N); 3) total body water (TBW); 4) total body potassium (TBK); and 5) an anthropometric method. Quantity of weight lost by obese subjects during comparison periods lasting 25-40 days ranged from 7.9 to 17.1 kg. Expressed as percent of aggregate weight loss, collective fat loss was 47.6 by E-N balance; 46.3 by TBW-N balance; 51.7 by TBK; 50.9 by anthrometry; and 33 by TBW. The E-N balance method yielded a tight cluster of individual means, whereas the other procedures gave a wide scatter of means. For short-term studies, the E-N balance procedure, although tedious and difficult, should yield results less variable than those generated by any of the other methods examined. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/893619/
Abstract: The gas chromatographic (GC) determination of the herbicide paraquat, the 1,1'-dimethyl-4,4'-dipyridyl cation in human plasma is described. In poisoning cases, plasma concentrations provide a necessary index of the severity of intoxication and a means of monitoring subsequent therapy. The methods may be extended to the specific trace analysis of paraquat in body fluids of post-mortem tissue. Reduction of fully ionised paraquat salts with sodium borohydride yields a hexahydro derivative, a diene, amenable to solvent extraction and GC. Employing 1,1'-diethyl-4,4'-dipyridyl dichloride as the internal standard, plasma concentrations of 0.1 microgram/ml (+/- 6% S.D.) may be determined with flame ionisation detection and 0.025 microgram/ml with nitrogen-selective flame ionisation. Further enhancement of specificity is achieved using selected ion monitoring mass spectrometry and the value of this technique in forensic analysis is illustrated. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/893707/
Abstract: A valid and reliable rating instrument was developed that has predictive value with regard to the ability to lose weight. The major constructs that the test was intended to measure were knowledge of the pragmatics of weight reduction and obesity and the role of fantasy in weight loss. Test items were drawn from research findings in the obesity literature and from subject matter experts in the fields of nutrition, internal medicine and clinical psychology. Test-retest reliability coefficients for the new instrument range from .64 to .95. Construct validity was ascertained through administration of the scale to groups of high school students (N=20), college nutrition students (N=30) and successful and unsuccessful dieters (Ns=28 and 20, respectively). It appears that the scale, The Dash-Brown Survey of Fact and Fiction in Weight Reduction (DBS), may be employed usefully to assess the remediability of obesity for potential dieters. The data further suggest that cognitive awareness of diet-related issues is significant in weight reduction. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/893675/
Abstract: Carnitine is synthesized from lysine and methionine. In the rat, inadequate intake of either of these essential amino acids causes carnitine depletion. Inasmuch as protein deficiency is common in the hospital population, we have investigated the possible occurrence of nosocomial carnitine deficiency. Fasting serum carnitine concentration was measured in 16 normal and 247 patients in 16 disease groups. Normal range of carnitine was 55-103 muM. Only the cirrhotic group showed significant (P < 0.05) hypocarnitinemia. 14 of 36 hospitalized cirrhotics had subnormal values for serum carnitine. The creatinine/height index, midarm muscle circumference, and triceps skin-fold thickness indicated protein-calorie starvation in the 14 hypocarnitinemic liver patients. In six of the hypocarnitinemic cirrhotics (average serum level 50% of normal), spontaneous dietary intakes of carnitine, lysine, and methionine were measured and found to be only 5-15% as great as in six normocarnitinemic, healthy controls. When these six cirrhotic and six normal subjects were given the same lysine-rich, methionine-rich, and carnitine-free nutritional intake, the normals maintained normal serum carnitine levels and excreted 100 mumol/day, whereas the cirrhotics' serum level fell to 25% of normal, and urinary excretion declined to 15 mumol/day. Seven hypocarnitinemic cirrhotics died. Postmortem concentrations of carnitine in liver, muscle, heart, kidney, and brain averaged only one-fourth to one-third those in corresponding tissues of eight normally nourished nonhepatic patients who died after an acute illness of a 1-3-day duration. THESE DATA SHOW THAT CARNITINE DEPLETION IS COMMON IN PATIENTS HOSPITALIZED FOR ADVANCED CIRRHOSIS, AND THAT IT RESULTS FROM THREE FACTORS: substandard intake of dietary carnitine; substandard intake of lysine and methionine, the precursors for endogenous carnitine synthesis; and loss of capacity to synthesize carnitine from lysine and methionine. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/894020/
Abstract: The amounts of the essential amino acids in the average British household food supply have been calculated and compared with those recommended by FAO/WHO. There were large excesses of all essential amino acids, with threonine being the most limiting. When similar calculations were made ten years ago, the sulphur-containing amino acids were the most limiting. The change results not so much from the greater amounts of animal protein which are now eaten as from changes in the reference pattern of amino acids. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/894022/
Abstract: Based on measurement of weight, height, head circumference, arm muscle and fat area, it seems that hilltribe infants in the first year of life can achieve a maximum growth potential similar to the general international standard of reference when they are on a total breast feeding regime. Theoretical calculations suggest that the undernourished hilltribe mothers may have a high capacity to lactate, especially in the first-year postpartum. Thus the practice of total breast feeding should be preserved and encouraged in every possible way. Also the infant should receive dietary supplements as he approaches the end of the first year. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/910522/
Abstract: In diabetics with different therapy indications the effect of the treatment on the lipid parameters of blood was examined. We estimated the change of the triglycerides, the cholesterol, the free fatty acids and the glycerol depending on the duration of the therapy. We used a combined stimulation test (combination of 100 g glucose, 1.0 g tolbutamide and 1.0 g glucagon in temporary coupling) as method for characterization of the type of diabetes. At the beginning of the therapy the fat parameters mentioned did not differ in patients with exclusively dietetic treatment and in SuH-patients. After longer duration of the therapy in exclusively dietetically compensated patients the fasting glycerol values decreased, were, however, statistically not significant. There were also no essential changes of the triglycerides, the cholesterol and the values of the free fatty acids in the two forms of treatment. The improvement of the carbohydrate tolerance could not be explained with changes of the insulin secretion. The results plead for the fact that the improvement of the diabetic metabolism develops by an increase of the peripheral insulin effectivity. The behaviour of the lipid parameters is not sufficient for an explanation of the carbohydrate tolerance. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/910524/
Abstract: In 1,000 obese persons and 250 persons with normal weight detailed anamneses of nutrition concerning the average daily intake of calories, carbohydrates, protein, fats, cholesterol, saturated and manifold unsaturated fatty acids were made. Obese persons ingested less food than persons with normal weight, - findings which on the one hand are explained with the different habits of eating in the dynamic phase (the hyperalimentation takes place above all in this phase) and the stationary one of obesity, on the other hand a further differentiation in hypophages, normophages and hyperphages should be performed. Finally frequency and structure of the meals are of importance. Tendencies of age did not occur in females, whereas all nutrients in males, beginning with the fourth decade of life, were ingested in a smaller degree than in adolescence. Longitudinal studies on the behaviour concerning nutrition are desirable. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/910526/
Abstract: Within the research project nutrition and performance on altogether 80 test persons during a three weeks' test period the problem was examined, whether the relations of the basal nutrients have an influence on the effectiveness of a diet with an only moderate reduction of calories. The relations of the nutrients were tested in four variants. The daily caloric intake orients at the optimum weight of the test person: 30 kcal/kg optimum weight a day. It was shown that the so-called optimum weight caloric diet led to a sufficient continuous decrease of weight without disturbances of the general state of health. The variation of the relations of the basal nutrients had no decisive influence on the effectiveness. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/910586/
Abstract: The city of Antofagasta (northern Chile), is an area of endemic chronic arsenic poisoning due to arsenic-polluted drinking water. In order to explore the possibility of a dose-response relationship, a dietary survey was carried out in 1972 in that city for measuring the daily fluid intake in the various age groups. The sample (N = 220) included 13 males and 13 females in each age group, except the 81-90 year-old group with 6 males and 6 females. A linear relationship was found between arsenic dose (mg/kg body weight/day) and age for males being P less than 0.001 (slope) and r = -0.6712; and for females P less than 0.001 (slope) and r = 0.6667. Age-specific prevalence rates per 100,000 population (both sexes combined) for chronic arsenic poisoning in Antofagasta Commune for the 1968-71 period, were plotted against mean arsenic doses (mg/kg body weight/day) by age group. A dose-response curve was computed, being F = 83.19, d.f. = 1,7 and P less than 0.01 (slope). The correlation coefficient was + 0.9604. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/910635/
Abstract: Women from five age groups (38, 46, 50, 54, and 60 years), participating in the population study "Women in Gothenburg 1968-1969", were subjected to a 24-hour recall dietary interview (n = 1361). In a randomized subsample (n = 418), a dietary history was obtained and individuals in another randomized subsample (n = 755) submitted a 24-hour urine specimen for nitrogen analyses. There were significant differences between the 24-hour recall and dietary history figures in all five age groups with respect to energy and all nutrients. The mean protein intake calculated indirectly from the urinary nitrogen excretion came close to the figures calculated from the dietary histories in four out of five age groups. The energy intake and, consequently, the intake of most nutrients calculated from the dietary histories were higher than generally ascribed to Swedish women, as most previous data have been obtained by 24-hour dietary recall interviews. Most women (71-89% in the different age groups) consumed too much fat and most women of fertile age (80-92%) consumed too little iron. A significant decrease in the mean energy intake was apparent only in the age group 60, i.e. 1870 kcal versus 1965--2 105 in the other groups. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/910639/
Abstract: The seasonal variations in circulating 25-hydroxycholecalciferol (25-HCC) were studied in 102 alcoholics with fatty liver disease without histologic signs of cirrhosis and in 35 patients with alcoholic cirrhosis. The mean levels were compared with those of normal persons. Alcoholics had generally lower 25-HCC values than the controls, particularly in the summer. This was primarily explained by insufficient diet and reduced exposure to sunshine. The ability of the liver to hydroxylate in the 25-position was studied in three groups of alcoholics with 1) fatty liver disease without cirrhosis, 2) compensated cirrhosis, 3) severely incompensated liver cirrhosis. All three groups exhibited a significant increase in serum 25-HCC following the peroral administration of cholecalciferol at a dose of 1 200 U daily for 7 days. Similar rises were seen 7 days after a single injection of 10 000 U cholecalciferol. This indicates a normal intestinal absorption of vitamin D, even in advanced alcoholic liver disease, and is inconsistent with a severely damaged 25-hydroxylation capacity in these patients. Osteomalacia due to impaired liver hydroxylation of vitamin D can hardly explain the increased fracture rate and the decreased bone mass, which have been described in alcoholics. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/910736/
Abstract: Erythrocyte transketolase activity (ETKA) and the effect of adding thiamine pyrophosphate have been measured in a group of 27 healthy individuals and in 37 patients diagnosed as having diabetes mellitus, anemia, polyneuritis, or malnourishment secondary to vascular disease of the brain. The observed values for the malnourished group did not differ significantly from those for the control group. The low ETKA values in diabetes mellitus seem to be due to a reduced apoenzyme level resulting from the disease itself rather than thiamine deficiency. Polyneuritis patients had low values of ETKA. In the anemic group as a whole the values showed a difference of only marginal significance from those found in the control group, but the patients with pernicious anemia all had a highly significant elevation of the ETKA values. Although the absolute thiamine pyrophosphate effect differ, there are no significant differences in percentage of thiamine pyrophosphate effect between the groups. It appears that differences in the patient groups studied here reflect variations in apoenzyme levels rather than thiamine status. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/910737/
Abstract: Calcium balance performance was evaluated in 130 normal perimenopausal women ages 35 to 50, studied on their usual, self-selected dietary calcium intakes. Two distinct balance methods were used, one based on customary intake and output measurements, and the other based on absorption and clearance of two simultaneously administered calcium isotopes. Both methods yielded essentially identical results. Under study conditions as closely approximating normal living as possible, these women averaged -24 and -31 mg Ca/day by the two balance methods (exclusive of unmeasured dermal losses). More significantly, there was a positive correlation between intake and balance, with women on higher self-selected intakes exhibiting more positive balance than women selecting lower intakes. The calcium intake predicted from our data which would be required to produce an average balance of zero was 1.241 g/day. This is significantly in excess of the current recommended dietary allowance for calcium. The implications and significance of this discrepancy are explored in detail. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/910738/
Abstract: Two hundred eleven preschool children who had received a food supplement and a group of 82 children who had not received any supplement were classified into various nutritional groups. Data on their increments in height and weight were analyzed to determine whether different groups behaved differently. The results indicated that those who were most severely malnourished benefited the most from the nutritional supplementation program and also that following on such programs nutritional dwarfs would have a chance to move toward normalcy. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/910739/
Abstract: Skinfold thickness, height, and weight measurements were recorded from 1964 through 1970 for more than 1,000 adult Eskimos who resided in the Central and Eastern Canadian Arctic. Among the men and women of all age groups, 70 to 83% had a low ponderal index (PI less than 12.5). Nutrition Canada reported similar rates in 200 adult Eskimos and therefore considered Eskimos, especially Eskimo men, as more obese than other Canadians. Thin skinfolds were found in most Eskimo men, including those with a low PI. The usefulness of the PI or other height/weight indices for appraisal of body fatness and prevalence of obesity in different population groups is questioned. Marked sex differences were found in the ratio of the skinfold thickness over the triceps to the mean thickness of two sites on the trunk (subscapular and suprailiac). Thus, use of the arm plus trunk sites provides important information about subcutaneous fat distribution, and comparisons of prevalence of obesity in different sex and age groups based only on arm skinfold measurements may be inappropriate. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/910740/
Abstract: The present study investigated the feasibility of a new experimental approach for studying the effect of covert nutritive dilution on the spontaneous food intake of obese individuals. Eight obese subjects were studied as inpatients on a metabolic unit for 15 days during which time they were unaware that their food intake was being monitored. A platter method of food presentation encouraged ad libitum ingestion. Caloric dilution was achieved by replacing sucrose-containing products with aspartame-sweetened analogues in an otherwise normal diet. During the base-line period the subjects spontaneously ate sufficient conventional food to maintain or even slightly increase body weight. Covert substitution of aspartame-sweetened products for their sucrose counterparts resulted in an immediate reduction in spontaneous energy intake of approximately 25%. The aspartame analogues were as well accepted as their conventional counterparts, as indicated by the equal quantity of each consumed. These preliminary results demonstrate that, in a metabolic ward setting, it is possible to maintain the spontaneous food intake of obese individuals at levels sufficient to preserve body weight and arbitrarily to decrease those levels of intake by 25% or more through covert changes in the caloric density of the diet. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/910742/
Abstract: Defined formula diets, shown to be clinically effective in separate trials, have never been compared in the same subjects under identical controls. The intent of this study was to determine which one of three diets, (Vivonex, Flexical, or Precision LR) was most effectively absorbed and utilized. Stool weight and frequency, nitrogen balance and fecal fat, ash and moisture were measured. In addition, subjective comments were recorded regarding overall acceptability and ease of preparation. Statistically significant differences were found only in total stool weight. The data imply that the underlying disease state of the patient, the individual's response to the diet, the composition, cost, availability, and storage requirements of the diet must be taken into consideration when selecting a low residue formulation. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/910747/
Abstract: Plasma free amino acids were measured in six adult human subjects at four consecutive 1/2 hr intervals following meals containing either 50 g lactalbumin, 50 g heated lactalbumin, or no protein. After the lactalbumin meal, all essential and several nonessential amino acids increased in the plasma. After the heated lactalbumin meal, these increases were either much less or did not appear. Following the no protein meal all measured plasma amino acids fell. The absence of a response to the heated lactalbumin meal was considered to be related to a drop in digestibility of heated lactalbumin as measured in rats. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/910748/
Abstract: The apparent consumption of dietary fat in Australia is 115 g/person/day, of which two-thirds is contributed by ruminant-derived foods. Consequently, the polyunsaturated fatty acid/saturated fatty acid ratio of the Australian diet is low, approximately 0.2. Recently a process has been developed which allows modification of the fatty acid composition of ruminant body fat, and a range of foodstuffs (fat-modified foods) which have a substantially higher polyunsaturated fatty acid/saturated fatty acid ratio than their conventional counterparts has been produced and marketed. In the clinical trials in which there was complete substitution of fat-modified ruminant foods for conventional ruminant products the fall in serum cholesterol was approximately 10%. In the trial in which there was only partial substitution the fall in serum cholesterol was insignificant. Using the equation developed by Keys, the predicted fall in serum cholesterol resulting from varying degrees of substitution of fat-modified ruminant meats for their conventional counterparts in the Australian diet is shown to be negligible. The fat-modified products were marketed at approximately twice the price of their conventional counterparts and it is claimed that this will limit the degree of substitution. It is concluded that the public health significance of fat-modified foods is limited. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/910764/
Abstract: The effect of consumption of wheat-based diets on serum cholesterol and triglyceride levels was studied in eight previously malnourished children. While consuming a control diet of casein, soy-cottonseed oil blend, and a mixture of sucrose and starch, the serum cholesterol level was 169 +/- 42 mg/dl (mean +/- SD). This decreased significantly (P less than .001) to 108 +/- 30 mg/dl after nine days' consumption of an isoenergetic-isonitrogenous diet in which whole wheat or white flour provided all the protein and +/- 50% of carbohydrate, and remained at this level for the 27-day dietary period. On changing again to the casein-based diet, the serum cholesterol level rose within nine days to 154 +/- 42 mg/dl. There was no similar diet-related change in serum triglyceride values. None of the known mechanisms whereby diet affects serum cholesterol adequately explains these findings. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/910759/
Abstract: Children with treated phenylketonuria (PKU) have been described as being at high risk for perceptual-motor dysfunction. In this study, the Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Children (WISC) and the Bender Gestalt test were administered to 19 school age children with treated PKU and of average intelligence who have been off diet from five months to six years four months. Perceptual-motor performance was evaluated, and school functioning was rated by classroom teachers. Substantial impairment of perceptual-motor functioning as measured by the Bender Gestalt test and lower WISC performance IQs than verbal IQs were observed in children of average intelligence. Quality of dietary control was found to be associated with performance on the Bender Gestalt test. These findings suggest the possibility of a specific deficit that could seriously interfere with academic progress, but which is not signalled by obvious impairment of overall intellectual functioning. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/910837/
Abstract: The distribution of the values for the daily urinary excretion of calcium during the last trimester of pregnancy was skewed toward high values in 1,034 women in Bradford, England. The logarithms of the values had a Gaussian distribution. The 95% range of this log-Gaussian distribution was 0.75 to 15.5 mmoles (30 to 620 mg.) per day. Nearly 20% of the values exceeded 8.75 mmoles (350 mg.) per day, which is the reported upper limit of the 95% range for nonpregnant women. Creatinine clearance is known to increase during pregnancy, and a prospective investigation in 112 pregnant Caucasian women in a hospital showed a highly significant correlation between calcium excretion and creatinine clearance. It is suggested that the increase in calcium excretion during pregnancy is due to the increase in glomerular filtration rate. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/910746/
Abstract: The respective roles of reduced dietary intake and malabsorption in the pathogenesis of weight loss in persons with chronic tropical sprue have been evaluated . Dietary intake was found to be significantly (P less than 0.001) less in a group of 45 patients with tropical sprue, all of whom had anorexia due to deficiency of folate and/or vitamin B12, than in a group of 51 healthy Puerto Ricans. Weight loss was equally prominent in those patients with tropical sprue who had normal absorption of fat and protein as in those who had excessive fecal loss and reduced absorption of these nutrients. Treatment of five sprue patients with folic acid or vitamin B12 for 2 weeks resulted in improved appetite and increased in dietary intake with weight gain in the absence of significant improvement in intestinal absorption. Treatment with oral tetracycline for a similar period of time in five other patients was not associated with vitamin repletion, return of appetite or weight gain. These observations indicate that reduced dietary intake resulting from anorexia caused by vitamin deficiency is a significant, and sometimes the most important, factor in the pathogenesis of weight loss in persons with chronic tropical sprue. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/911296/
Abstract: In developed countries, the excess consumption of some nutritive factors and foodstuffs becomes a major problem. The consumption of fat is included here due to its contribution to the high energy intake and its potential health risks. The consumption of fat as a nutrient is characterized by a steady increase. The physiological requirements of fat intake are not included in many dietary allowances and requirements of other indicators, such as linoleic acid, fatty acids, and cholesterol, are formulated in scientific papers only. The confrontation of existing fat allowances with the effective consumption indicates a tremendous excess. The same is true of some other indicators. The findings about the consumption of fat commodities complete these considerations. The indicated problems of fat consumption reveal the important position of this nutrient and of fat commodities in the food and nutrition situation. But opinions about these important factors are not sufficiently formulated what causes difficulties in food and nutrition planning and therefore in elaborating of the food and nutrition policy. For this reason, the international unification of opinions is urgently needed. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/910903/
Abstract: Metabolic balances of fluoride and magnesium were determined in man in control studies and during fluoride supplementation. The studies were carried out during three intake levels of calcium (200, 1,400, and 2,200 mg/day) and during two intake levels of phosphorus (800 mg and 1,400 mg/day). The intake of about 10 mg fluoride per day, given as NaF, resulted in a two- to threefold increase of the urinary and fecal fluoride excretion. However, during the high fluoride intake, the urinary magnesium remained about the same, the fecal magnesium increased slightly, and the magnesium balances did not differ significantly. This was the case whether fluoride was given during a low or high calcium intake in the absence or presence of added phosphorus. Similar results were obtained with large doses of fluoride (40-45 mg/day) given to patients with osteoporosis. The studies have shown that supplemental fluoride ranging from 10 to 45 mg/day did not affect the magnesium balance during calcium intakes that ranged from 200 to 2,200 mg/day and during phosphorus intakes that ranged from 800 to 1,400 mg/day. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/911019/
Abstract: In September 1974, the largest outbreak of foodborne salmonellosis ever reported to the Center for Disease Control--affecting an estimated 3,400 persons--occurred on the Navajo Nation Indian Reservation. The responsible agent was Salmonella newport and the vehicle of transmission was potato salad served to an estimated 11,000 persons at a free barbecue. The cooked ingredients of the potato salad had been stored for up to 16 hours at improper holding temperatures. The magnitude of the outbreak allowed us to study secondary transmission by calculating the rates of diarrheal illness during the 2 weeks following the outbreak in persons who did not attend the barbecue and by examining the results of stool cultures obtained after the outbreak. We found no secondary transmission. We conclude that a health official should monitor food preparation and service at large social gatherings and that person-to-person transmission of salmonellosis probably does not normally occur even in settings considered highly conductive to cross-infection. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/910841/
Abstract: The cord blood of 50 normal-birth-weight neonates (more than 2,500 grams) and 50 low-birth-weight neonates (less than 2,500 grams) and the respective mother's blood were analyzed for folate, vitamin B6, riboflavin, nicotinate, pantothenate, thiamin, biotin, vitamin B12, vitamin A, and beta-carotene concentrations at parturition. No mothers had received supplemental vitamin intake. Except for vitamin A and beta-carotene, maternal vitamin levels were lower than those of neonates in all instances. Vitamin levels in the blood of low-birth-weight neonates were the same of those of normal-birth-weight infants except for significantly lower folate, vitamin B12, and pantothenate levels. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/956308/
Abstract: The author describes a new procedure which he has studied himself in order to restore alimentary transit after total gastrectomy for carcinoma. This requires raising a jejunal loop using Roux' technique in the retrocolic position and anastomosis to the end of the duodenum below, and end-to-side anastomosis is then made with the end of the esophagus. Finally, the author discusses the advantages of this operation. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/956580/
Abstract: A computer-based dietary counseling system is described. Designed to interact directly with patients, the program interviews people about their dietary behavior and plans with them a weight-reducing diet of approximately 1,500 kcal. In a preliminary trial, twenty-five volunteers gave critical commentary en route through the interviews. The results provided insight into the process of dietary interviewing by computer and helped in the preparation of an experimental study (10). It is our hope that a revised and expanded version of the program will be helpful to both patients and nutritionists in the management of a variety of clinically important dietary problems. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/956391/
Abstract: Liquid test meals were infused into the stomach and acid secretion was measured by intragastric titration at pH 5.0 Acid secretion after 500 or 750-ml sodium chloride meals was two to three times higher than basal secretion rates and was equivalent to 25-30% of the peak acid output in response to histamine. Since these meals did not cause a rise in serum gastrin concentration, it is assumed that they stimulate acid secretion by causing distention of the body and fundus of the stomach. Compared with this distention stimulus, glucose meals had no effect on acid secretion and fat-inhibited acid secretion; however, both glucose and fat caused an increase in serum gastrin concentration. Amino acids caused a much greater increase in serum gastrin concentration and enhanced acid secretion above that noted with distention alone. In contrast, albumin did not enhance the serum gastrin concentration or stimulate acid secretion to a statistically significant extent. There was a close correlation between the rise in serum gastrin concentration and rate of acid secretion after different test meals when average results for each test meal were plotted. However, there was a poor correlation between acid secretion and serum gastrin concentration when the responses of the individual subjects with a given test meal were compared. Our interpretations are: (a) Distention is an important stimulant of the acid-secretory response to a meal, and this is not mediated by gastrin release. (b) Gastrin is one but probably not the only mediator of the chemical phase of acid secretion, i.e., acid secretion noted with amino acids that cannot be explained by distention. (c) Glucose and fat also release gastrin; however, with glucose the rise in serum gastrin is too small and too transient to enhance acid secretion, and fat probably releases unmeasured inhibitors that overwhelm the effect of gastrin on acid secretion. (d) Albumin is not a stimulant of acid secretion. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/956579/
Abstract: The process of changing food habits is more complex than would appear to most nutritionists; it involves much more than the collection of information. Change must be studied from a multidisciplinary, chiefly a sociologic, point of view, since the food habits of families within a community are formed in a matrix of human relationships. Three major variables are presented and discussed: (a)differentiation, the capacity to process information; (b)accessibility, the measured distance between a family and an information source; and (c)solidarity, the ability of a family group to react cohesively to proposed change. To effect change in his dietary habits, an individual needs his family's cooperation. The nutritionist will do well to rely on the findings of social scientists if proposed changes in family food habits are to be implemented. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/956398/
Abstract: The effects of starvation, an 800-kcal mixed diet and an 800-kcal ketogenic (low carbohydrate-high fat) diet on the composition of weight lost were determined in each of six obese subjects during three 10-day periods. The energy-nitrogen balance method was used to quantify the three measurable components of weight loss; protein, fat, and water. On the 800-kcal ketogenic diet, subjects lost (mean +/- SE) 466.6 +/-51.3 g/day; on the isocaloric mixed diet, which provided carbohydrate and fat in conventional proportions, they lost 277.9+/- 32.1 g/day. Composition of weight lost (percentage) during the ketogenic diet was water 61.2, fat 35.0, protein 3.8. During the mixed diet, composition of loss was water 37.1, fat 59.5, protein 3.4... 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/956340/
Abstract: The effect of phosphorus (inorganic phosphate) supplementation was studied in seven postmenopausal women with osteoporosis. Prior to supplementation, all chemical parameters studied in serum and urine were normal. Bone density was below the fifth percentile for age in all but one patient, and the percentage of bone surface involved in resorption was higher than normal. During administration of the phosphorus supplement, fasting serum concentrations of calcium and immunoreactive parathyroid hormone showed no significant changes, while serum phosphorus, urinary calcium, and tubular reabsorption of phosphorus decreased. In four patients studied by balance techniques, calcium balance became positive or less negative. Bone-forming surface decreased and bone-resorbing surface increased in all patients. Bone-resorbing surface was highly correlated with total phosphorus intake. Density of the distal radius changed variably, while density of the midradius increased slightly in all patients. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/956582/
Abstract: Clinical dietitians at the UMC Medical Center expressed a desire for a computer-generated listing of patients which could be used to record pertinent information obtained during patient visitation. An existing computer-stored census file was used as the data base for a computer program developed to print a dietitan's worksheet, which included the patient's name, location, and birth date. The form was printed on 8 1/2 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/956702/
Abstract: A method is described for the enzymic estimation of galactose-1-phosphate (Gal-1-P) in blood which has been applied to filter paper and allowed to dry. The successful clinical management of patients with galactosemia depends upon exclusion of galactose from their diet. Earlier studies demonstrated that red cell Gal-1-P is a sensitive indicator of exposure of such patients to galactose. These earlier methods, however, required venipuncture, preparation of washed, packed red cells, and shipment of the sample in dry ice to a central laboratory. With the present method, capillary blood can be drawn by a nonphysician, applied to filter paper and mailed in a conventional envelope at ambient temperature. From this sample, the Gal-1-P content of the red cells can be determined, if the hematocrit is known. These conveniences should allow estimates of Gal-1-P at a frequency more appropirate for optimal dietary control. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/956916/
Abstract: This experiment was designed to determine if the adaptive increase in adipose tissue epinephrine-stimulated lipolysis (ESL) observed in exercise trained rats is related to decreased adipocyte size or a direct response to exercise. Two levels of treadmill exercise and three levels of food restriction were imposed on male rats over a 12 week experimental period to create a distribution of adipose tissue cell sizes. Epinephrine-stimulated lipolysis was subsequently measured in the isolated adipocytes from rats trained at two different exercise levels and in untrained rats fed either ad libitum or 16%, 27%, or 35% dietary restriction. Energy restriction was effective in reducing body weight and to some extent epididymal fat pad weight; however, adipocyte size and number were not significantly affected. Exercise in both groups of trained rats was effective in reducing adipocyte size; however, cell size did not differ between training groups. The group receiving the greatest amount of daily exercise had significantly greater ESL indicating that the adaptive increase in lipolytic potential seen in adipose tissue of exercise trained rats is a true metabolic adaptation not secondary to reduced cell size. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/956966/
Abstract: Follow-up studies on 36 children, in whom celiac disease (gluten-sensitive enteropathy) was established by gluten challenge, were carried out after management on gluten-free diets for a mean of six years. Evaluations included measurement of height and weight, which for the group approximated normal distributions, and histologic examination of the duodenal or jejunal mucosa. Mucosal morphology was regarded as normal in 16, and there were minimal changes in 20. Epithelial cell height was within the normal range in all the children. Interepithelial lymphocytes were within normal range in the majority and lymphoid cells in the lamina propria were not different from those in control subjects. Mucosal lactase was significantly lower in patients than in control subjects in the duodenum and the jejunum, whereas sucrase and alkaline phosphatase values were significantly lower in the jejunum but not in the duodenum. Low content of mucosal lactase and increased numbers of interepithelial lymphocytes may be sensitive indicators of persisting ingestion of gluten in mucosa that is otherwise normal or approximately so in appearance. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/956863/
Abstract: The linoleate level in total lipids was measured in lymphocytes from control subjects and patients with multiple sclerosis. A small but significant decrease was found in cases of multiple sclerosis. The percentage composition of lymphocyte fatty acids was determined in rats fed diets with various linoleate contents. There was a correlation between lymphocyte linoleate and plasma linoleate in both humans and rats. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/957347/
Abstract: The female offspring of DES-treated mothers are examined cytologically and colposcopically annually, starting at the age of seven years no treatment is indicated until a colposcopic atypical transformation zone occurs. With its occurrence all the abnormal epithelium(squamous or columnar) is excised from the vagina and cervix under colposcopic guidance in the hospital or in the office under local anesthesia. The procedures are done in stages to minimize scarring and to eliminate the possibility of vaginal-cervical adhesions or vaginal shortening. The finding of an incidence of 47% of cervical or vaginal intraepithelial neoplasia in 34 patients aged 10 to 26 years so treated to date indicates a high risk of potential candidacy for squamous carcinoma of the vagina or cervix in later years. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/957560/
Abstract: Biological, rather then purely technical approach seems to be very essential to ensure better results in alloplasty of the cornea. The diseased corneal tissue (especially, after corneal burns) usually fails to accept a keratoprosthesis permanently. The cornea must, therefore, be biologically reconstructed by transplantation of autogenous tissue. Autogenous fascia lata, periosteum, sclera and auricular cartilage have been tried in the present work to surve the purpose. Autogenous sclera and cartilage proved to be best materials, the latter having an important advantage of being easily obtainable. Experimental studies (including hystological control) proved the method of "Chondrokeratoplasty" to be well founded. During the past four years the method has been used on the eyes of 18 patients with most severe corneal lesions unmanageable by the usual graft technique. The Keratoprosthesis must be buried under the cartilage disk until the adequate nutrition is developed and full vitality of the graft is achieved. Only then the cartilage disk is trephined in its centre and the optical part of the keratoprosthesis is exposed. Technically, the procedure is much simpler as compared to the procedure of odonto-keratoprosthesis by strampelly. The results seem to be highly encouraging. So far there was no extrusion after chondrokeratoprosthesis procedure. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/957503/
Abstract: Investigation of multiple serum and urinary factors in 44 patients with calcium urinary stone disease confirmed a number of defects that have been described previously: elevation of mean serum calcium and uric acid above normal, and depression of mean serum magnesium. Urinary excretion of calcium and uric acid was increased and was increased and was probably related to food ingestion. Urinary magnesium also increased after eating but less than calcium, with the result that for most patients the magnesium to calcium x 100 ratio approached levels observed in stone formation. Urinary oxalate excretion was constant during the entire observation period and apparently was not affected by ingestion of a defined diet. Nine additional patients had persistent hypercalcemia owing to hyperparathyroidism (5 confirmed, 1 suspected), malignancy (2) and drug ingestion (1). Metabolic evaluation of patients with calcium urinary calculi continues to contribute to decisions regarding their best therapeutic regimen. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/973147/
Abstract: The influence of industrial-occupational and social-hygienic factors (vocation, age, underground and continuous service record, per capita income, nutrition) on the level of temporary incapacitation and also on the dynamics and structure of the disease incidence among average annually engaged and regular miners in ore-mining industry was studied. The use of multifactor correlation and regression analysis and of the Bayes probability method helped establish the dependence of the temporary incapacitation level on the age, occupational activities, continuous service record, family composition, education and per capita income. The administration and social bodies of the mine in concerd with medical workers have on the ground of the present investigation outlined ways and means for implementation of measures aimed at consolidating the health status of workers. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/973589/
Abstract: A trial of wheat bran added to the diet of aged dyschezic hospital patients (12 men, 13 women) is reported. This significantly reduced the need for aperients and suppositories but revealed unexpected differences in response by sex. In men, bran produced more bowel actions, fewer constipated days and an increase in stool size. In women there was much less effect upon the number of bowel actions and reduction of constipated days. In men there were fewer constipated days and need for aperients after the bran was withdrawn. Side-effects were only seen in men. Most patients received 15 g/day (range 5-25 g/day). Although cheap and effective in replacing aperients, there were problems in administration and control of incontinence for the nursing staff. The value of added wheat bran in the bowel management of the long-stay hospital patient is discussed and an effective method of combining bran in the diet (e.g. with bread) might be further investigated. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/973559/
Abstract: The results are presented of a prospective study on drug use during pregnancy involving antibiotics, analgesic drugs and iron and vitamin preparations. The study was conducted in Malm between 1963 and 1965. No unfavourable effect of the use of antibiotics, mainly penicillin and sulphonamides, could be demonstrated. Among 15 women who had an infant with hypospadias, three had used penicillin during the first trimester, but this may well be coincidental. Analgesic drug use shows a variability which resembles that previously described for psychopharmaca. No effect on the malformation rate or infant survival could be found. A possible lengthening of the mean duration of pregnancy occurred after the use of analgesic drugs during the 2nd or 3rd trimesters. Women who are going to have a dead or malformed infant use iron and/or vitamin preparations less often during late pregnancy than women who prove to have a normal infant. When such drugs were used, the percentage of pregnancies ending in birth before the 38th week is reduced, and the birth weight among term babies is higher. The associations between pregnancy outcome and the use of iron and vitamin preparations is probably indirect, due to social factors associated with drug use. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/973598/
Abstract: There are implications in the literature that wine is different from other alcoholic beverages and that it may even have a beneficial effect on the nutritional process. A metabolic study was undertaken in an attempt to document the effects of wine versus ethanol on absorption of various nutrients. Nitrogen and caloric data are presented here. During each of four 18-day experimental periods, six healthy, young men were given, in random order, a liter per day of the following test beverages: Zinfandel wine (9.3% w/v alcohol); dealcoholized Zinfandel wine; pure ethanol (9.3% w/v aqueous alcohol solution); and deionized water. These beverages were divided into four equal feedings and administered with a carefully controlled isocaloric diet over a 12-hr period. The subjects tended to lose weight on alcohol-containing regimens, suggesting that calories from alcohol may not be as efficient as those from fat and carbohydrate. Urinary excretion of nitrogen was significantly greater during wine and ethanol administration than during feeding of the other test beverages. This was reflected in an increase in uric acid and urea nitrogen output, primarily, the latter, suggesting that alcohol may directly affect protein catabolism. There was no significant difference in fecal nitrogen excretion between experimental periods. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/973601/
Abstract: The contents of total nitrogen, nonprotein nitrogen, lactose, and individual milk proteins have been determined in human milk from well-nourished Swedish mothers. Breast milk samples from 50 mothers at different stages of lactation (up to 170 days) were collected. Furthermore, three mothers gave samples repeatedly throughout the whole lactation period. The protein content in mature milk was found to be 0.8 to 0.9% by amino acid analysis. The nitrogen content and the contents of the major human milk whey proteins, alpha-lactalbumin and lactoferrin, are very high for the first few days, then decrease rapidly and reach, thereafter, the more slowly declining level of mature milk. Nonprotein nitrogen and the nonspecific milk protein serum albumin are present in constant concentrations throughout lactation. The daily milk volumes were determined and found to be 500 to 600 ml in the very early part and 700 to 800 ml in the later part of the lactation period. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/973604/
Abstract: A state-wide nutritional health survey of Missouri residents conducted in 1973 included hemoglobin, hematocrit, and serum iron determinations on approximately 1,164 persons and dietary iron intake estimates, based on a diet history, for 530 persons. Based on the criteria used for interpretation of the Ten-State Nutrition Survey data, over 19% of all preschool age white children and over 10% of the white children six to 10 years old had low or deficient hemoglobin levels. Between 8 and 17% of the white males between 10 and 60 years old and over 30% of the white males over 59 years old were anemic. Between 3 and 9% of all white females over 9 years of age had low or deficient hemoglobin levels. The levels of anemia for most age and sex groups of Negroes were at least twice as great as for corresponding groups of white persons. Low or deficient hemoglobin levels within the age and sex groups were associated with low hematocrit and serum iron levels; suggesting that some of the anemia was a reflection of iron deficiency. Estimates of the dietary intake of iron indicated that less that 20% of the females 10 to 35 years old and less than 60% of older females and boys under 17 years of age were consuming the Recommended Dietary Allowances. Over 35% of the preschool children and females between 10 and 60 years old were consuming less than two-thirds of their Recommended Dietary Allowances for iron. At least part of the iron deficiency was, therefore, indicated to be related to insufficient dietary intake. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/973597/
Abstract: Values for hair chromium concentration of nulliparous women and parous women who had just given birth to a child were determined by atomic absorption spectrophotometry. Mean values for hair chromium concentration of nulliparous and parous subjects were 309 +/- 23 and 117 +/- 10 ppb, respectively. The difference was highly significant (P less than 0.001). No further significant decrease in hair chromium was observed in women who had borne more than one child. Hair chromium concentration increased significantly with the amount of time between pregnancies, especially when at least 4 years had passed since the end of the last pregnancy (P less than 0.001). These data suggest a state of suboptimal chromium nutrition during pregnancy. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/973605/
Abstract: Sumo is an ancient sport in Japan and there are at present over 800 professional sumo wrestlers (rikishis). After entrance into the wrestler society a wrestler takes strenuous daily training together with a very high calorie diet (more than 5,000 cal). Frequency of food intake is twice a day. The average diet of Japanese people contains of 2,279 calories and the meal frequency is generally three times a day. In 96 wrestlers average actual body weight and modified Broca index was 100.4 kg and 143.5%, respectively. In this group the prevalence of overweight with obesity, overweight without obesity, nonoverweight with obesity, and nonoverweight without obesity was 53.4, 39.1, 1.0, and 6.5%, respectively. Also mean serum levels of triglyceride, phospholipid, uric acid, and total protein were significantly higher than those obtained in 89 age-matched healthy males. The incidence of diabetes mellitus, gout, and hypertension in wrestlers was 5.2, 6.3, and 8.3%, respectively, all values being considerably higher than in controls. Weight correlated significantly with skinfold thickness, diastolic blood pressure, total cholesterol, and uric acid in each group. Multiple regression analyses were made treating weight or uric acid as dependent variables in both groups. Obesity, hyperlipidemia, and hyperuricemia in wrestlers were presumed to be caused chiefly by the high calorie diet and partially by the infrequent meal intake. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/973600/
Abstract: The calorigenic response to a high protein test meal was studied in women with a history of childhood onset obesity. Obese and nonobese individuals were fasted overnight and basal oxygen consumptions determined the following morning. A semisynthetic 823 kcal high protein test meal was ingested within a 1-hr period followed by hourly determinations of oxygen consumption and plasma levels of insulin, free fatty acids, triglycerides, glucose, amino acids, and urea nitrogen. Amino acid levels increased faster and to a higher plateau in the nonobese group, while insulin levels increased and eventually decreased in a similar fashion in both groups. No differences in basal metabolic rate were detected. The postprandial increment in oxygen consumption was significantly less among the obese subjects. Diminished calorigenesis after each meal would result in accumulation of extra calories provided that caloric consumption is not appropriately decreased. These data suggest that a physiological aberration of energy metabolism may contribute to the development of childhood onset obesity. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/973603/
Abstract: The influence of physiological levels of calcium and phosphorus on the absorption of nonheme iron from a semisynthetic meal was evaluated. Each of the 34 participating subjects received two to four test meals. In three studies where both calcium and phosphate were added, absorption of nonheme iron was reduced to 27 to 47% of that absorbed when no salts were added. However, with the single addition of either calcium or phosphate to the test meals no significantly inhibiting effect was observed. As the absorption of nonheme iron was significantly reduced only with the combined addition of calcium and phosphate, it is suggested that a calcium-phosphate-iron complex forms which inhibits iron absorption. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/973608/
Abstract: Observations regarding caloric intake, growth, and food-related behavior of 14 children with Prader-Willi syndrome have shown that they need fewer calories than normal children to maintain their weight in an appropriate weight channel, and that they exhibit peculiar food-related behavior that in some instances is present before the onset of obesity. Most of them can be prevented from gaining excessive weight or can lose weight if they and their caretakers receive appropriate counseling on how to provide low-calorie food and how to make other food inaccessible. In 12 of the 14 children, a reasonably successful weight-control program was achieved for up to five years. A biological basis for many of the noted observations is assumed, but the exact nature of the defect remains elusive. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/973613/
Abstract: Thirty-three cases of benign paroxysmal vertigo in childhood have been seen at our institution since the disorder was recognized ten years ago. Progression from paroxysmal torticollis of infancy to paroxysmal vertigo of childhood is documented. Ear infections and allergy appeared causative in a few, but not most, of the cases. The most important consideration for the pediatrician is to rule out epilepsy and brain tumor. Parents should be reassured that the condition is benign, and that the attacks will cease in a few months or years. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/973629/
Abstract: Various flavoring agents were evaluated as to their ability to improve the taste acceptability of Vivovnex-HN, a potent oral hyperalimentation diet. Several imitation flavors were incorporated into the Vivonex-HN powder in different concentrations with and without an artificial sweetener. The mixtures were rated by a taste panel. Among the unsweetened flavors, spray-dried orange juice, Sealva imitation mint No.381 and cherry mint imitation appeared to be the most acceptable flavors. Among the individual flavors sweetened with 0.025% sodium saccharin, rum, strawberry and raspberry proved to be the most acceptable. Among all of the formulations studied, a combination of rum, strawberry and raspberry with 0.025% sodium saccharin was found to be optimal. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/973630/
Abstract: The preparation of infant formulas by a hospital pharmacy for a 280-bed department of pediatrics is discussed. A formulary of acceptable special therapeutic formulas was developed in conjunction with the pediatricians. Space and equipment originally intended for intravenous admixture and total parenteral nutrition services were supplemented to include special infant formula services. The personnel and equipment requirements, and quality control procedures, of the service are discussed. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/974264/
Abstract: Alterations in reticulocyte size occur 2-3 days after the onset of iron deficient or megaloblastic erythropoiesis and precede, by several weeks, changes in mean corpuscular volume (MCV). Iron-deficiency anemia induced in a normal subject by repeated phlebotomies was characterized by the initial development of larger than normal reticulocytes followed by an abrupt decrease in reticulocyte size. Microreticulocytes appeared 3 days after the fall in per cent iron saturation and antedated the decrease in MCV to below normal by 6 wk. Mean reticulocyte size was disproportionately smaller than normal in patients presenting with iron deficiency. In contrast, reticulocyte size increased abruptly in a patient (and rats) 2-3 days after administration of methotrexate. Mean reticulocyte size was disproportionately larger than normal in patients presenting with folate or vitamin B12 deficiency. Specific replacement therapy with iron, folate, or vitamin B12 was quickly followed by normalization of reticulocyte size. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/973861/
Abstract: The case histories and autopsy reports of 64 neonates who died from kernicterus were reviewed. The most outstanding findings were: high incidence of kernicterus with serum indirect bilirubin less than 15 mg.; different clinical picture of the premature in comparison with term neonate; predisposing factors such as respiratory distress and intrauterine malnutrition were often associated in the premature. Preventive, educational and therapeutic measures were discussed at the end. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/973974/
Abstract: 1 Three normal subjects were infused with Sar1-ala8-angiotensin II (Saralasin, P113) whilst on a high sodium (200 mEq + normal diet) and a low sodium (10 mEq diet) intake. 2 On the high sodium intake when angiotensin II and plasma renin activity (PRA) were suppressed, P113 infusion (5-10 mug kg-1 min-1) caused a slight rise in BP and a marked drop in urine flow and sodium excretion, with a fall in glomerular filtration rate, and effective renal plasma flow. 3 On the low sodium intake, when angiotensin II and PRA were increased, P113 infusion (5-10 mugkg-1 min-1) caused no change in blood pressure, urine flow or sodium excretion. However, when P113 was infused at an incremental rate starting at 0.25 mug kg-1 min-1 there was a fall in standing BP, which was maximal at an infusion rate of 1 mug kg-1 min-1, and this fall in standing BP was largely abolished as the rate of infusion was increased to 10 mug kg-1 min -1. 4 These results show firstly that angiotension II is involved in maintaning standing blood pressure during dietary sodium depletion in normal man and secondly that P113 does have agonist as well as antagonist activity in normal man, the effect depending on the level of angiotension II and sodium intake. When looking for angiotensin II mediated hypertension it may ne important to use an incremental rate of infusion of P113 as the agonist activity of larger doses may mask its hypotensive action. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/974530/
Abstract: The gastric emptying rate of an isotopically labelled solid meal was compared in 29 insulin-dependent well-controlled diabetics and 18 normal controls. The diabetics were assessed for evidence of autonomic neuropathy. No significant difference in gastric emptying rate was found between controls and diabetics with or without autonomic neuropathy. Only three diabetics had greatly delayed gastric emptying, but in one of these the test had given a normal result on an earlier occasion. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/932980/
Abstract: Digoxin binding to normal and kwashiorkor serum was studied and found to be inferior in the latter. Digoxin should be used with care in hypoalbuminemic patients. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/932525/
Abstract: Twenty or more normal subjects (half of whom were males) in each decade of life from age 20 to 80 years were included in the study. Plasma renin activity (PRA) was measured with the subjects on a normal sodium diet and after sodium restriction and standing. Aldosterone and sodium excretion rate was measured on unrestricted sodium intake and on day 3 of sodium restriction. Plasma renin activity was quantitated by both bioassay and radioimmunoassay of angiotensin-I. Plasma renin activity under both test conditions declined with increasing age, especially those over 40. Values of those in the seventh decade averaged 60 per cent of the value of that of the younger age group. Response of renin activity to sodium restriction and standing was 73 per cent of that of the younger age group. Older females tended to be less responsive to sodium restriction and standing. Aldosterone excretion rate declined with increasing age so that by the seventh decade the values averaged 55 per cent of those in the second decade of life. Aldosterone excretion rate in response to sodium restriction also declined with increasing age, particularly above the fourth decade, so that the values on day 3 of sodium restriction in the older subjects averaged 33 per cent of that of the subjects in the second decade of life. Renin substrate did not decline with increasing age. The decline in renin activity and aldosterone values in the older subjects appeared to be due to factors other than sodium or potassium intake. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/932382/
Abstract: This study on 93 patients was conducted at a skilled nursing facility. Twenty-two of the 93 patients had pressure sores; 34 of the 54 sores were present when the patients were admitted and 20 developed after admission. Only 5 of the 54 sores healed. Healing times ranged from 15 to 55 days after the beginning of treatment. Thirteen deaths occurred among the 71 patients without sores, and 17 deaths among the 22 patients with sores. Specific treatment regimens varied (cleaning solutions, antimicrobial drugs, heat, enzymatic debridement) but always included frequent changes in the position of the patient. Ten of the 22 patients with sores were anemic vs. 19 of the 71 patients without sores. Half of the patients with sores were maintained with tube feedings whereas more than half of the patients without sores received regular house diets. Pressure sores are a serious problem among geriatric patients in nursing homes. All those who care for the aged should be fully aware of the procedures involved in the prevention and management of these sores. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/932384/
Abstract: A significant lowering of serum cholesterol, ionized calcium and iron levels was demonstrated in 27 elderly patients given 10 or 20 gm of unprocessed wheat bran daily in the diet for six weeks. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/933367/
Abstract: The fractionation of antigens for hemagglutination test from adult worms of Dirofilaria (D.) immitis was carried out by defatting with diethylether, sonication, centrifugation, gel-filtration on sephadex G-100 column, DEAE cellulose column chromatography, saturation with ammonium sulfate and disc electrophoresis. An antigen FPSD4 thus obtained, showed potent HA activity against sera from patients infected with Wuchereria (W.) bancrofti. But it was also reactive with normal sera. After elimination of the cross-reacting substance from antigen FPSD4 by the saturation of ammonium sulfate, a specific antigen FPSD4-2 was obtained. By the tests using FSCD4-2 in a protein concentration of 20 mug/ml, sera of 27 patients with microfilariae of W. bancrofti in their blood were examined and 18 positive cases (66.7% positive) were obtained. With 21 normal human sera, no cross reaction was found. As antigen FPSD4-2 showed about 20 protein bands, the further purification of the antigen by disc electrophoresis was carried out. Among three subfractions thus obtained, FPSDA which contained 5 protein bands was most reactive and specific. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/933123/
Abstract: The incidence of cytoplasmic metachromasia has been studied in cultures of skin fibroblasts derived from 6 cases of the syndrome of supravalvular aortic stenosis, characteristic facies, and mental retardation which in many instances represents the late normocalcaemic stage of the severe form of infantile hypercalcaemia. The percentage of metachromatic cells (mean positivity 7.3%) was significantly higher than in control cultures. The addition of vitamin D2 and calcium to culture media caused a highly significant increase in metachromatic cells (mean positivity in supplemented media 16.1%) compared with a lesser increase in controls. These findings strengthen previous suggestions that there is a genetically determined hypersensitivity to vitamin D in some cases of the syndrome. A multifactorial aetiology is proposed, dependent on a variable genetic susceptibility of fetal connective tissues to a non-physiological effect of D vitamins and a variable level of maternal vitamin D nutrition. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/933412/
Abstract: Jimson weed (Datura stramonium), is a wild growing herb that contains belladonna alkaloids. Recently there have been reports of intentional ingestion of Jimson weed by adolescents for psychedelic purposes. When seen in emergency department, these patients appear with physical signs of atropine-like poisoning, disturbances of thought and hallucinations. Diagnosis depends on a positive history, if available, and recognition of anticholinergic effects. Differentiation from lysergic acid diethylamide (LSD) ingestion and schizophrenia is important. Physostigmine, an anticholinergic agent, can reverse both central and peripheral manifestations of Jimson weed intoxication. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/933675/
Abstract: The clinical details of two patients suffering from amyloid infiltration of the trachea and esophagus respectively are presented. The "amyloid tumor" in the trachea presented with dysphonia and a swelling in the lower subglottic region. Attempts at complete surgical excision of it were unsuccessful. The patient with esophageal amyloid presented acutely with dysphagia and features of dehydration and malnutrition. Systematized amyloidosis was discovered at autopsy, but no primary initiating cause for it was found. In both cases it was possible to confirm the diagnosis by electron microscopy. The current views on the composition, structure, causation and treatment of amyloid disease are reviewed. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/933693/
Abstract: A functional and simple surgical method for treating the respiratory distress of the neonate affected by Pierre Robin syndrome is described. The base of the tongue is placed in an anterior position via a buried wire suture tied around the body of the hyoid. The method proposed in this paper fulfills the following: 1. It is physiologic since the infant is able to suckle and maintain its nutrition by preserving the function of the mobile portion of the tongue for deglutition. 2. Maintenance of the "pushing" action of the tongue stimulates growth of the mandible. 3. The anchoring wire is not exposed in the oral cavity and the risk of tissue breakdown and infection is eliminated. 4. This technique utilizes the stronger fibrous portion of the mid-tongue rather than muscle which "gives" more readily under pressure. 5. The shortest distance from the base of the tongue to the mid-hyoid provides the best mechanical advantage. 6. The suture, if need be, may be tightened at subsequent periods of time. Under Ketamin (Ketalan) anesthesia the tip of the tongue was held in the forward position. An 18 gauge stainless steel wire was inserted via a large curved needle through the midline of the posterior-most portion at the base of the tongue. The needle was directed anteriorly and inferiorly to emerge below the mid point of the inferior border of the hyoid bone. The opposite end of the wire was then tunneled submucosally to the anterior portion of the base of the tongue at foramen caecum, and directed inferiorly to emerge above the superior border of the mid-portion of the hyoid bone. Through a small skin incision opposite the body of the hyoid bone, both free ends of the wire were tied under tension around the body of the hyoid while pulling the base of the tongue forward. The skin incision was closed with a single nylon suture. A prosthetic obturator was used to close the cleft palate. The outcome was satisfactory with no morbidity. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/933912/
Abstract: Reported age-corrected cancer mortalities in different countries and in the USA were systematically correlated with the female breast cancer mortalities in order to establish the extent by which cancers at other sites are affected by regional and temporal variations of exogenous factors controlling the etiology of and/or mortality from cancer of the female breast. Some of the most common human cancers are directly correlated with breast cancer, with a high degree of statistical significance. Genuine inverse associations are rare, and only a few of the major neoplastic diseases appear to be uncorrelated. The results suggest that the human cancer mortality is controlled by exogenous factors which vary over space and time. These factors are as yet unidentified but are probably related to diet. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/933998/
Abstract: A report is presented on the postoperative treatment of 4 patients who had undergone duodeno-pancreatectomy because of chronic pancreatitis. When the patients co-operate well satisfactory metabolic compensation can be achieved with small doses of insulin. Replacement of the pancreatic enzymes with the appropriate preparations can be particularly well monitored by means of the fat content of the faeces. The substitution of vitamins A, D, K, and B12 parenterally at intervals of several weeks is also advisable as a safety measure. A method is described for the closely meshed monitoring of the blood sugar. This method is suitable in co-operative patients who are capable of collecting capillary blood for achieving a particularly good control of the metabolic state. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/933974/
Abstract: The use of an interposed antiperistaltic jejunal loop between the stomach and the duodenum in the treatment of severe postgastrectomy nutritional disorder is described in two patients. Both patients had a gratifying return of digestive comfort and a striking increase in weight after the interposition operation. Several aspects of operative technique are described. This procedure should be considered in any patient suffering from this disorder. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/934003/
Abstract: A standardized high protein, low carbohydrate diet was tested in 128 overweight patients over a period of 12 months. Under this regimen a weight reduction of up to 38% of the original body weight was observed. Apart from the weight reduction there was a normalization of the blood pressure, blood lipids and blood glucose. The diet is easily adapted to out-patient care and is exceptionally well tolerated by the patients. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/947993/
Abstract: The activity of the enzyme ornithine decarboxylase and the accumulation of nucleic acids were examined in the rat foetus and placenta during normal development and during maternal undernutrition. Maternal undernutrition resulted in a reduced rate of increase in weight of both the foetus and placenta towards the end of gestation. In the placenta the failure to increase in weight was accompanied by a failure of DNA to increase. In the foetus the amount of DNA failed to increase over a short period and then made a compensatory response to return to a normal amount by the end of gestation. Undernutrition failed to affect RNA in either the foetus or placenta. These results differ from those obtained during maternal protein deficiency. The activity of foetal and placental ornithine decarboxylase was normal during much of gestation in the undernourished group. However, at the same time as the compensatory increase in foetal DNA, there was a marked increase in enzyme activity in both tissues. It is suggested that a single compensatory stimulus is responsible for the changes in both ornithine decarboxylase and DNA. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/947152/
Abstract: A girl with the syndrome of thrombocytopenia with absent radius had severe diarrhoea and dehydration relieved by withdrawal of cows' milk and aggravated by its reintroduction on three occasions. Deterioration in gastrointestinal symptoms was associated with haematological relapse with thrombocytopenia, leucocytosis, anaemia, and eosinophilia. There appeared to be a correlation between milk exposure and the haematological and gastrointestinal disturbances. Supporting evidence from published reports for such a correlation is reviewed. Cows' milk protein intolerance may be a factor in precipitating haematological relapse in susceptible infants with radius aplasia. Early withdrawal of cow's milk protein should be tried in thrombocytopenia with absent radius, especially in cases with prominent gastrointestinal upset. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/947153/
Abstract: Serial changes in plasma levels of calcium, phosphorus, magnesium, alkaline phosphatase, and total proteins have been investigated in 138 healthy, term Caucasian infants. Blood samples were obtained for each infant from cord blood and on day 1 and day 6. The infants were studied in three groups according to whether they were breast fed, received 'Ostermilk No. 1' or 'Cow and Gate V' formulas. Levels of calcium, phosphorus, magnesium, alkaline phosphatase, and total proteins did not differ between the groups at birth or on day 1. By day 6 calcium levels were higher and phosphorus levels lower in the breast-fed infants compared with either of the artificially-fed groups. Phosphorus levels were lower in the V Formula group compared with the Ostermilk group but the mean calcium levels of these two groups did not differ significantly. However, only 2-8% of the V Formula group developed hypocalcaemia compared with 18-2% of the Ostermilk group. The only infant developing clinical tetany belonged to the group fed Ostermilk. Evidence is also given which suggests that those infants with low calcium levels on day 1 who were fed the high-solute milk tended to show a fall in calcium by day 6. This did not apply to the two other groups. It is concluded that the use of adapted cows' milk preparations for infant feeding should lead to a reduction in the incidence of neonatal tetany. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/947847/
Abstract: Two cases of infection with Campylobacter fetus subspecies intestinalis are reported. In a 46-year-old farmer the development of septicaemic campylobacteriosis with acute gastroenterocolitis was favoured by malnutrition due to chronic alcoholism. After treatment with erythromycin the patient recovered completely. The second patient, a 40-year-old worker with meningitis, recovered after combined streptomycin-erytro-mycin therapy. In both patients antibodies against homologous and reference strains of Campylobycter fetus subspecies intestinalis, serotype 1 (Mitscherlich) were demonstrated in titres ranging from 1:16 to 1:64 by type the complement-fixation test. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/947985/
Abstract: One hundred and thirty-one young Mexican-American women were interviewed and assessed nutritionally at their first obstetrical visit in a city-county hospital. About half had an intake of less than the recommended allowance for one or more nutrients or were frankly anemic, as judged by hemoglobin levels. The majority demonstrated little accurate information concerning foods as sources of nutrients. Considerable confusion was shown in their answers to questions concerning newborn birth weight, diet, and maternal weight gain. The fundamentals of prenatal education regarding nutrition for these patients must begin with foods and their relative values, emphasize the dependence of the fetus on maternal diet, and clarify the relationship of weight gain to obstetrical health. Ideally, such an educational effort should begin in early childhood. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/947200/
Abstract: 3-(2-Diethylaminoethyl)4-methyl-7-(carbethoxy-methoxy)-2-oxo-1,2-chromene-hydrochloride (carbocromen; Intensan) shows dose dependent platelet aggregation inhibitory activity in vitro according to the methods of Born (following ADP, epinephrine and collagen) and of Breddin (platelet agglutination test--PAT--, adhesively). The effect was found to be more pronounced than that of acetylsalicylic acid. Furthermore, in vivo carbocromen inhibited the increased spontaneous platelet aggregation in man. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/947963/
Abstract: The inter-organ flux of substrates after a protein-rich meal was studied in seven healthy subjects and in eight patients, with diabetes mellitus. Arterial concentrations as well as leg and splanchnic exchange of amino acids, carbohydrate substrates, free fatty acids (FFA), and ketone bodies were examined in the basal state and for 3 h after the ingestion of lean beef (3 g/kg body wt). Insulin was withheld for 24 h before the study in the diabetic patients. In the normal subjects, after protein ingestion, there was a large amino acid release from the splanchnic bed predominantly involving the branched chain amino acids. Valine, isoleucine, and leucine accounted together for more than half of total splanchnic amino acid output. Large increments were seen in the arterial concentrations of the branched chain amino acids (100-200%) and to a smaller extent for other amino acids. Leg exchange of most amino acids reverted from a basal net outut to a net uptake after protein feeding which was most marked for the branched chain amino acids. The latter accounted for more than half of total peripheral amino acid uptake... 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/947272/
Abstract: The long-term effects of milk diets in infancy on the blood serum cholesterol concentrations were studied in 97 school children 7-12 yr of age. Detailed histories were available for these children with respect to their diets during infancy. The major criterion for inclusion in the study was milk (human milk, cow's milk, or commercial formula) as the exclusive source of diet cholesterol during the first 3 mo of life. Fasting blood cholesterol and triglycerides were measured in these 97 school children, and the current diets of 29 of the 97 were evaluated for daily cholesterol intake. A 7-day diet diary was recorded, the food intake was measured and analyzed for nutrients, and validity of the diets was verified by determination of urinary nitrogen excretion. Results of the study showed that the school children fed a low cholesterol formula during infancy had a mean serum cholesterol value 7-12 yr later that was lower than the mean values of the groups fed greater amounts of cholesterol in infancy. Analysis of current diets of 29 of the 97 school children showed that their current dietary intake of cholesterol was low. Dietary intake of cholesterol did not have a noticeable effect on the serum cholesterol levels of the 29 children. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/948249/
Abstract: The relative amount of lysobisphosphatidic acid (LBPA), known also as bis(monoacylglycerly)phosphate, among the total phospholipids was analyzed in post mortem samples of brain and liver of patients affected by four storage diseases. In spite of the extensive accumulation of storage lysosomes, none of the samples revealed a highly evelated LBPA content comparable to that found in the liver in Niemann-Pick disease and in the liver in lipidosis induced by 4,4'-diethylaminoethoxyhexestrol. We conclude that, although LBPA is often present in high concentration in lysosomes of many types of cells, it is not always a major component of these organelles. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/948368/
Abstract: Three hundred and forty-six nulliparous women with pregnancy-induced hypertension prior to term were monitored in a high-risk pregnancy unit while awaiting fetal maturity. Management included ambulation as desired, regular hospital diet without salf restriction, blood pressure measured 4 times daily, weight and urine protein determined 3 times each week, creatinine clearance determined weekly, and serial sonography to monitor fetal growth. Sedation and antihypertensive agents were not prescribed. Delivery was delayed until term unless hypertension persisted or recurred following an initial salutary response. Factors other than hypertension that contributed to the decision to effect delivery were 1) rapid weight gain, 2) decreasing creatinine clearance, 3) appearance of significant proteinuria, 4) suspected fetal growth retardation, and 5) the development of severe headache or scotomata. With this method of management the perinatal mortality rate was 9/1000. Only 5 infants developed the respiratory distress syndrome and all survived. There were 26 women who left the unit against medical advice. Severe hypertension subsequently developed in 7 of these women and 4 of their fetuses were stillborn. The perinatal mortality rate among this group of patients was 154/1000. It is concluded that the nulliparous patient with pregnancy-induced hypertension prior to term can be safely managed by hospitalization and close observation as a viable alternative to prompt delivery. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/948369/
Abstract: Methods for management of diabetic pregnancy in the outpatient setting require strict glucose control. To assess the effect of diet and injection of short and intermediate acting insulin on glucose, diabetic patients tested their urine daily for glucose and had biweekly serum glucose tests. A brief metabolic ward study in 9 diabetic patients during the third trimester yielded hourly glucose determinations. These results defined the range of serum glucose over a 24-hour period. Glucose data on 6 normal third trimester women also came from hourly glucose values. Glucose results of normal and diabetic subjects were similar. A 16th subject with diabetic eye, renal, and foot complications is included as a case report to illustrate management technics. Infants of the diabetic women had no perinatal mortality, morbidity, or macrosomia and thus differ from an earlier study where glucose was not strictly controlled. The data suggest hospitalization can be short and low perinatal morbidity and mortality are possible with this outpatient method of management of the pregnant diabetic patient. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/948540/
Abstract: Two patients with central pontine myelinolysis are described. Both were middle aged women presenting with a history of protracted vomiting and drowsiness. Hyponatraemia (serum sodium 96 to 100 mmol/L) was a feature in both patients. No underlying malignancy, alcoholism, malnutrition or other serious disease was identified. Correction of electrolyte abnormalities was accompanied by deterioration in level of consciousness and development of a neurological syndrome characterized by quadriparesis, dysphasia and mutism. Death followed and histopathological examination confirmed classical myelinolysis in the central pons and extensive similar, though not identical, lesions in the cerebral hemispheres in both cases. The pathophysiological basis of the lesions is likely to be a special metabolic susceptibility of oligodendroglial cells in areas where neurones, glial cells and myelin sheaths lie in close proximity to one another. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/948915/
Abstract: In 1,000 obese persons and 250 persons with normal weight detailed nutrition anamneses concerning the average daily intake of calories, carbohydrates, protein, fats, cholesterol, saturated and repeatedly unsaturated fatty acids were made. Obese persons took less food than persons with normal weight--findings which are to be explained by the different habits of eating in the dynamic (the hyperalimentation takes place above all here) and in the static phase of obesity. There were no age tendencies in women, whereas in men, beginning with the 4th decade of life, all the nutrients were taken in a smaller quantity than in adolescence. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/948648/
Abstract: Man is an integral part of the ecosystem and any action of his against the environment has an effect against man himself. An Agro-ecosystem is a unit composed of the total complex of organisms in an area under cultivation, plus the totality of the physical environmental conditions and the modifications introduced by man, who manages the agro-ecosystem for his own benefit. The use of pesticides has been necessary for the agricultural development of some tropical areas. Unfortunately, the inadequate use of this input has caused many problems for himself. These include destruction of natural resources; intoxications; pesticide residues in water and foods; secondary pest outbreaks; increase in illnesses transmitted by certain arthropods; loss of foreign exchange; unemployment; malnutrition; disability; high infant mortality and poverty. A better use of agro-ecosystem management techniques can lead to a rational sustained utilization of land resources. Chemical pesticides can be considered as one of the factors in pest management, and not necessarily the only one available. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/948620/
Abstract: The effect of angiotensin II on peripheral levels of immunoreactive prostaglandin A2 (IR-PGA) was determined in 17 normal male volunteers. IR-PGA rose from 338 +/-65 (SE) pg/ml to 635+/-142 in response to pressor infusions of angiotensin II (p less than 0.05 on paired analysis). This increase was not observed when indomethacin, 75 mg p.o., was given to 8 patients two hours prior to a repeat infusion. Five patients of the original group were placed on a low sodium diet (10-20 mEg). The response to angiotensin was now exaggerated (278+/-52 pg/ml to 916+/-284). These five patients were kept on a low sodium intake and given indomethacin 50 mg p.o. g 6 hourly for 4 days. There was no significant rise with angiotensin infusion (106+/-31 pg/ml to 120+/-70). Pressor infusions of angiotensin II raise peripheral levels of IR-PGA, and this response is exaggerated by a low sodium diet and blocked by either acute or chronic indomethacin administration. This data supports the concept that vasodilatory prostaglandins may be released by endogenous angiotensin and thus provide a dynamic antagonism to the renin angiotensin system in man. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/948647/
Abstract: The main agricultural systems in the Central American area for both local food consumption and export crops are monocultures, multiple cultures, associated cultures and their combinations. The efficiency of these systems depends on the utilization of the resources and technology available to the different strata of producers, and on the ecological conditions of the tropics. The need for more ecologically oriented research, with special emphasis on the small farmer and his economic and social status, is clearly evident. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/948547/
Abstract: Plasma, blood cell, and total body potassium levels were measured serially in 21 patients receiving long-term diuretics for the treatment of cardiac oedema and the results compared with similar measurements in 10 control subjects. Initially, all diuretic recipients received potassium chloride supplements. However, in 17 of the 21 subjects these were discontinued and measurements of potassium status were repeated regularly thereafter. No significant fall in the measured indicators of potassium status were observed in the patients in whom potassium was withdrawn; however, in one subject with persistent cardiac failure who presented with hypokalaemia this was not corrected even after intensive potassium supplementation. It is concluded that for those taking a normal diet who are free of any major gastro-intestinal disorder, routine potassium supplementation is unnecessary, and might indeed occasionally prove harmful. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/948950/
Abstract: External environment of vegetable storehouses and catering establishements in the foci of far-eastern scarlatina-like in the Primorsk territory was found to be considerably contaminated with Yersinia pseudotuberculosis. Epidemiological role of vegetable storehouses in the preservation of pseudotuberculosis microbe in the foci was demonstrated. In one case Y. pseudotuberculosis was isolated from soil. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/949049/
Abstract: The management and treatment of patients with gastric cancer is all encompassing. It includes preoperative care, operative resection postoperative sympathetic encouragement with therapeutic and nutritional guidance. This has been the experience with 62 human beings afflicted with malignant disease of the stomach. The end result has been that approximately 50% of these patients survived five years or more. This is a comparative favorable percentage when considering cancer elsewhere in the gastrointestinal tract. What is more enlightening is that the patients were comfortable and able to enjoy a pleasant personal diet during the five or more years following surgery. This salubrious state is attributed to the preservation of a small segment of stomach which enabled the intrinsic factor in the gastric mucosa to participate in and contribute to the normal hemopoietic physiological process. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/949199/
Abstract: A previous study had shown that in children with third degree protein-energy malnutrition, ultrafilterable or diffusible serum calcium concentrations remain normal, while the protein-bound fraction is low in those with hypoalbuminemia, accounting for over-all hypocalcemia. In order to retest those findings, a new series consisting of 20 small marasmic infants and 16 children with kwashiorkor was studied, using a membrane ultrafiltration procedure. Fifteen eutrophic children served as controls. At time of their admission into hospital, both groups of patients showed hypocalcemia, more so the cases of kwashiorkor. Diffusible calcium was normal, while the protein-bound moiety was significantly decreased in children with kwashiorkor. Upon recovery, protein-bound as well as total calcium concentrations returned to normal values. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/949185/
Abstract: Standardized direct disk diffusion antibiotic susceptibility testing on monomicrobial blood cultures is compared with the Food and Drug Administration method. The direct method yields acceptable data and may conserve 24 h in reporting results. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/998184/
Abstract: Relations between mineralisation and mechanical properties have been investigated in human femoral compacta. Evidence of age-related changes in physical properties of bone, independent of mineral density, is provided by significant (P less than 0.05) partial correlation between ultimate tensile stress and age. However, 75 per cent of variance in ultimate tensile stress, and 85 per cent of variance in ultimate compressive stress could be accounted for by variation in mineral density. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/998128/
Abstract: Thanks to diuretics, adequate diet, and other measures, the treatment of cirrhotic ascites in recent years has brought better results. Nonetheless, a certain number of patients do not respond to the above mentioned treatment. Such patients are afflicted with so called Refractory Ascites on which diuretics have no effect. In recent years the concentrated continuous reinjection methods has been accepted. During a nine month period, we have treated and analyzed thirty patients with severe Hepatic Ascitogenic Cirrhosis. The results have shown: 8 patients with satisfactory improvement with one reinjection, in 2 patients Ascites did not reoccur; 6 patients died; 6 patients failed to return for a control reexamination; in 2 patients, ascites persisted even after repeated reinjections. The patients were given diuretics the third week following the reinjection, and were put on a low salt diet. Ascites reoccurred, and to a greater degree during the second third, and fourth month. A reduced sodium level was corrected by the reinjection and by the administration of NaCl during the reinjection. K and Cl levels did not change significantly. Urea levels, which were elevated in many cases were normalized. Ammoniums and Phenols also tended to normalize following reinjection. Bilirubin values were highly variable especially in two patients. One of whom had a severely damaged liver (direct bilirubin), the other of whom had bleeding varicoses of the esophagus (indirect bilirubin). Both of these patients died. In such cases reinjection should not be performed until the bilirubin values fall below 5 mgr %. Of the six patients who died, four died of unforeseen esophageal hemorrhaging. A larger number of patients grew more tolerant of diuretics. Preparation for a Portocaval Shunt with the reinjection method is of a special advantage because of an overall improvement in condition, making surgery possible. Complications resulting from reinjection were insignificant and transitory. As a whole, our results (sixteen patients in satisfactory condition), showed that Continuous Venous Reinjection of peritoneal fluid, even though a palliative method, represents a significant step forward in the treatment of Ascites in the severely ill. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/998534/
Abstract: The effect on the fasting serum lipid levels of adding daily 291 mg of cholesterol to diets containing 3 mg of cholesterol and equal fat content, but different fatty acid composition, was tested on 12 young men. The saturated diet provided 97 g/day of a staurated oil made up of 2 parts of palm oil and 1 part of coconut oil. The polyunsatured diet provided 97 g/day of safflower oil. The cholesterol was dissolved in 40 g of either oil incorporated into a spread. A similar spread, devoid of cholesterol, was fed during the cholesterol free periods. Duration of dietary periods was 14 days. Addition of cholesterol produced a mean elevation of serum cholesterol of 9 mg/dl (SE +/- 2.1) in the presence of the saturated diet, and of 8 mg/dl (SE +/- 1.6) in the presence of the polyunsaturated diet. Both cholesterol elevations were significant (P less than 0.01) but not significantly different from each other. Substitution of the saturated diet for the polyunsatured diet caused a significant elevation of serum cholesterol which was the same when the substitution was made in the presence or in the absence of added dietary cholesterol. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/998536/
Abstract: Plasma vitamins A, E, and C, plasma triglycerides and cholesterol, and leukocyte vitamin C were examined in young healthy adult females who were cigarette and/or oral contraceptive users. It was found that cigarette smoking slightly increased the levels of vitamin A, triglycerides, and cholesterol while oral contraceptives significantly increased these plasma lipids. The effects of cigarette smoking and oral contraceptives on these substances were additive. Neither cigarette smoking nor oral contraceptives had any significant effect on plasma vitamins E and C. Oral contraceptives slightly decreased the level of leukocyte vitamin C in the cigarette smokers. Cigarette smoking did not impart and acute effect on these parameters. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/998185/
Abstract: The bone mineral content of the femoral neck of 61 autopsy specimens was assayed by x-ray spectrophotometry. The mechanical strength of the specimens was also determined experimentally by applying a compressive force perpendicularly to the shaft. The ultimate force at fracture was obtained from force/displacement plots. A coefficient of correlation of 0.89 between bone mineral content of the femoral neck and the ultimate force at fracture was found. Even when limited to a group of women aged 67-80 a fairly close correlation was found. This indicates that the bone mineral level, measured in vivo, can be used as a criterion of the risk of fracture in elderly women. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/998518/
Abstract: In 18 hypertensive patients receiving a constant (100 mEq/day) sodium diet, treatment with clonidine (0.3 mg/day for 5 days) decreased blood pressure in 11 patients with high and normal renin levels and 7 with low renin levels. The high and normal renin group had early and rapid reductions in blood pressure and plasma renin activity. In contrast, the low renin group had a more gradual hypotensive response and only a small absolute decrease in plasma renin. For all patients, pretreatment renin levels were related to the initial decrease in blood pressure but not to the reductions measured after 5 days. Thus, two mechanisms of action of clonidine are possible, one related to acute inhibition of the renin-angiotensin system in patients with high and normal renin levels and another that is independent of renin mechanisms and occurs in all hypertensive patients. In six additional patients with high renin levels induced by prior sodium depletion (10 mEq/day sodium diet), clonidine did not reduce blood pressure or renin, thus indicating that the suppressive action of this agent on renin pressor mechanisms occurs only in patients whose elevated renin levels are intrinsic to hypertension and unrelated to sodium depletion. Of the 18 patients receiving a normal sodium diet, 13 were classified as responding to treatment (decrease in both systolic and diastolic pressures of at least 10%). The five nonresponders had greater weight gain and higher values for aldosterone excretion. For all patients, there was a significant correlation between decrements in blood pressure and in aldosterone, suggesting that the countervailing effects of fluid accumulation on blood pressure in nonresponding patients resulted from a failure of aldosterone to be suppressed. Changes in aldosterone, in turn, correlated significantly with changes in renin. Thus, the antirenin effect of clonidine enhances its antihypertensive action not only by acutely ablating renin-angiotensin pressor mechanisms, but also by inhibiting aldosterone production and thereby minimizing longer-term reactive volume retention during treatment. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/998540/
Abstract: Assessments of dietary intake, intelligence, physical growth, and clinical signs of malnutrition were made on 600 children from five Philippine communities. Five boys and five girls each at ages 8,9, and 10 from poor and less poor families drawn from town and rural schools in each community were examined. Dietary staples were rice, fish, corn, coconuts, and sweet potatoes, respectively, at the five sites. Analyses of variance indicated marked differences among communities in nutrient intake based on 24-hr recall, in intellectual and anthropometric measures and in clinical signs of malnutrition. There were few significant F ratios for urban-rural residence, socioeconomic status, sec, or age. There were positive correlations of approximately 0.20 between intake of calories and carbohydrates and intelligence; between calories and carbohydrates and anthropometric measures; and between intelligence and anthropometric measures. Clinical signs in the eye and on the skin showed low correlations of about-0.20 with dietary intake of protein, fat, thiamin, and riboflavin but not with vitamin A. In all communities energy intake was low reflecting limited fat consumption. Where rice or corn was the staple, thiamin and riboflavin were also frequent deficiencies; with fish, ascorbic acid; with sweet potatoes and coconuts, calcium, riboflavin, and thiamin. A very high incidence of eye changes, suggestive of a vitamin A deficiency, was found even where vitamin A intake seemed adequate. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/998537/
Abstract: In 100 infants with nutritional rickets, i.e., responsive to vitamin D therapy, we found a close inverse relationship between serum phosphorus, on the one hand, and serum alkaline phosphatase and the presence of radiological signs of rickets, on the other. There was no correlation between serum calcium and the severity of bone lesions. It is concluded that hypophosphatemia but not hypocalcemia is typical of rickets. Since hypophosphatemia and rickets can be produced experimentally by phosphate deficiency alone, we suggest our infants can be divided into two groups, one with true vitamin D deficiency that leads to hypocalcemia and no or mild bone lesions, and one with primary phosphate deficiency, resulting perhaps from a defect in phosphate transport, which leads to rickets and hypophosphatemia. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/998542/
Abstract: Classical experimental rickets in the rat is a dual deficiency, resulting from both phosphate and vitamin D deficiency, with many of the features of rickets reproducible by simple phosphorus deficiency. Simple vitamin D deficiency differs markedly from experimental rickets, with only the absence of the vitamin D-dependent calcium-binding proteins common to both situations. The expression at the bone level of vitamin D deficiency differs in the two conditions, with rickets leading to profound structural and metabolic changes, whereas simple vitamin deficiency primarily compromises the regulatory function of bone, without obvious structural alterations. It is proposed that human nutritional rickets is the result of a nutritional vitamin D deficiency that aggravates the expression of a pre-existing metabolic defect in phosphate transport. Simple nutritional vitamin D deficiency, unaccompanied by rickets, may occur, but probably has always been rare. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/998547/
Abstract: A preliminary investigation was conducted to explore the use of plasma methionine and cystine for determining human sulfur amino acid requirements. Measurements of urinary methionine, cystine, taurine, and inorganic sulfate were included. After a 3-day control period, three young men were fed for 8 days a diet containing a purified -l-amino acid mixture, patterned after egg protein but devoid of methionine and cystine. Fasting plasma methionine and cystine levels showed little decrease during the 8-day period. Urinary cystine and taurine responses were inconsistent among the subjects. Urinary methionine and inorganic sulfate levels decreased markedly within a few days after feeding of the experimental diet, and may be useful criteria for determining human sulfur amino acid requirements. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/998545/
Abstract: Six diets furnished 6.0 g of nitrogen to adult human subjects as follows: a combination of rice and wheat; mixtures in which either 100 or 50% of the amino acids in rice and wheat were replaced by their constituent amino acids; and similar diets in which lysine was increased from 1.2 to 1.8 g. Nitrogen retention was greater (P less than 0.01) and concentrations of several amino acids in plasma were lower when the cereals were supplemented with lysine than when all other diets were fed. Data obtained with mixtures of amino acids apparently cannot always be used interchangeably with that from cereal-based diets, even when amino acid content is the same. Changes in plasma amino acids are a useful indicator of utilization of dietary amono acids when nitrogen balance also is determined. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/998550/
Abstract: To determine the influence of diet on serum cholesterol and triglyceride levels among adults, 24-hr dietary recall interviews were conducted among 957 men and 1,082 women resident in the community of Tecumseh, Michigan. Trained interviewers obtained detailed description of all foods consumed during 24 hr before venipuncture for lipid determination. Using a list of nutritional composition of 2,706 foods prepared from standard references, nutritionists determined quantities of all nutrients common to the American diet which were consumed by each participant according to a 24-hr diet record. For analysis, men and women were grouped into lower middle, and upper tertiles according to serum cholesterol and triglyceride levels. The mean daily consumption of each dietary component was virtually identical in all tertiles for men and women but differed between sexes. Cholesterol and triglyceride levels were unrelated to quality, quantity, or proportions of fat, carbohydrate, or protein consumed in the 24-hr recall period. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/998549/
Abstract: This prospective study assesses the effect of 2.5, 4, and 10 mg of pyridoxine supplementation during pregnancy on maternal and fetal plasma levels of pyridoxal 5'-phosphate (PLP) and on the degree of coenzyme saturation (activation factor) of aspartate aminotransferase and alanine aminotransferase (alphaEGOT and alphaEGPT) in maternal erythrocytes. More than 4 mg of pyridoxine supplementation daily was required for most pregnancies to maintain maternal plasma PLP levels within the range observed during the first trimester and in the nonpregnant state. The plasma PLP concentrations in maternal and cord blood were highly correlated and indicated a dependence of fetal vitamin B6 nutrition on maternal circulating PLP. Measurements of alphaEGOT and alphaEGPT were not as reproducible as plasma PLP assays and were less sensitive and quantitative indicators. In the majority of subjects, the changes in alphaEGOT and alphaEGPT with time correlated poorly with the changes in plasma PLP. However, when the data were analyzed without regard for their dependence on time, they demonstrated a negative, linear correlation between alphaEGOT and log plasma PLP and between alphaEGPT and log plasma PLP for the group on 2.5 mg of pyridoxine and for all the subjects combined. Finally, the dietary records showed that most of the subjects consumed less than 2 mg of vitamin B6 daily from their food. The results indicate that the current Recommended Dietary Allowance for vitamin B6 during pregnancy (2.5 mg) is too low and that supplementation of this vitamin in an amount more than 4 mg daily is recommended. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/998551/
Abstract: The influence of various dietary supplements on the fecal bacteria was studied. Substances were chosen for study because they were known to influence body metabolism or had been implicated in the various hypotheses as the cause of large bowel cancer. No alteration in the fecal flora was demonstrated. The implications of these findings are discussed in the light of other investigations with special reference to our theory concerning the cause of large bowel cancer. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/998552/
Abstract: Colon cancer, rare in the past, and in developing populations, currently accounts for 2 to 4% of all deaths in Western populations. Evidence suggests the primary cause to be changes in diet, which affect the bowel milieu intrieur. It is possible that in sophisticated populations, the higher concentrations of fecal bile acids and sterols, and longer transit time, favor the production of potentially carcinogenic metabolites. Of secular changes in diet, evidence suggests that the following may have etiological importance: 1) the fall in intake of fiber-containing foods with its effects on bowel physiology, and 2) the decreased fiber but increased fat intakes, in their respective capacities to raise concentrations of fecal bile acids, sterols, and other noxious substances. For possible prophylaxis against colon cancer, recommendations for a lower fat intake, or a higher intake of fiber-containing foods (apart from fiber ingestion from bran) are extremely unlikely to be adopted. For future research, western populations with considerably lower than average mortality rates, e.g., Seventh Day Adventists, Mormons, the rural Finnish population, as well as developing populations, demand intensive study. Also requiring elucidation are the respective roles of diet and of genetic constitution on concentrations of fecal bile acids, etc., and on transit time, in prone and nonprone populations. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/998553/
Abstract: To test the reproducibility of the dietary questionnaire used in the Japan-Hawaii Cancer Study and to measure the consistency of dietary patterns over time, 109 men were reinterviewed with the same questionnaire after a 6-month interval and 111 men were reinterviewed after a 2-year interval. The responses for intake of the 33 food items in the questionnaire were fairly reproducible. Food items with substantial correlation coefficients in both groups of men tended to be consumed on a more habitual basis. This finding suggests that if habitually consumed foods are linked to specific cancers, it is less likely that such associations occur by chance. This is of particular importance because when many food items are considered in a dietary study, chance association between a specific food and cancer is not an infrequent event. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/998554/
Abstract: Six subjects were studied for an 8-week period that consisted of a 3-week control period, followed by a 3-week period during which their daily diets were supplemented with 3 oz of a high fiber breakfast food, All-bran, and a final 2 weeks on their regular diet. Daily diet records of food intake were recorded and analyzed for seven dietary constituents; carbohydrates, proteins, fats, cholesterol, fiber, alcohol, and total calories. The most significant change in eating behavior due to the fiber food supplementation was a decrease in eating eggs, butter, and breakfast meats. These foods were most often replaced because all six subjects chose to eat the major portion of All-bran during breakfast. An increase in milk and fruit also occurred during the supplemented feeding. These particular foods were added to make All-bran more palatable and served to increase carbohydrate and protein intake. Five subjects added the supplement to the between meal-time intake and thus caused an increase in total daily caloric intake. At lunch and dinner few foods were altered with no particular pattern of substitution. Notwithstanding the knowledge that increased fiber content may have beneficial effects, none of the subjects modified his eating behavior to include even 1 oz of a high fiber food daily after the experimental period was concluded. Thus behavior modification by forced diet intake of a high fiber breakfast food resulted in definite diet pattern changes that did not persist following the experimental period. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/998556/
Abstract: Ten healthy male subjects on a low fiber diet were given two doses of raw wheat bran (12 and 20 g/day) and two doses of cooked bran (13.2 and 22 g/day). Both doses of raw bran increased fecal dry weight but only the higher dose decreased transit time and increased stool volume. Individual stool size was increased only by raw bran 12g/day. Neither bran influenced fecal wet weight or stool frequency. This study suggests that the cereal manufacturing process alters wheat bran so that cooked bran has less effect on the intestine than does a comparable amount of raw bran. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/998555/
Abstract: The effect on colonic function of adding wheat fiber for 3 weeks to the metabolically-controlled diets of six healthy volunteers has been studied. Increasing dietary fiber intake from 17 to 45 g/day increased fecal weight from 79 +/- 6.6 g/day to 228 +/- 29.9 g/day and shortened mean transit time, measured by a continuous marker method, from 57.8 +/- 8.3 hr to 40.3 +/- 8.9 hr. The increase in fecal weight was largely due to water. Fiber caused a dilution of fecal marker and an increase in fecal fat, nitrogen, and calcium output. Fecal sodium, potassium, and chloride showed only small changes but volatile fatty acid output increased significantly without concentrations changing. Fecal bile acid output increased from 199 +/- 46 mg/day to 279 +/- 46 mg/day. These changes are discussed in light of current views of the role of dietary fiber in protecting against colon cancer. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/998742/
Abstract: Case reports are presented of two hyperactive preschool boys, one with severe cognitive and one with emotional problems, treated as a last resort with the Kaiser-Permanente elimination diet. Outcomes suggest further study of the effectiveness of the diet in alleviating symptoms of hyperactivity, especially in the preschool child who is unresponsive to medication and whose hyperactivity may be compounded by other developmental and emotional problems. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/998566/
Abstract: Three major sources of variation affecting serum cholesterol and serum total lipid concentration values were studied in a group of healthy men. The first source of variation, analytic error, was separated into pre-instrumental and instrumental components. The pre-instrumental component, which consisted of all uncertainties occurring from the instant of venipuncture to the entrance of the sample into the instrument, was statistically significant for total lipids. The second major source of variation-preparation of the subject-was evaluated for four major stresses: diet, exercise, posture prior to venipuncture, and duration of tourniquet application. Diet affected total lipids, while the specifics of posture and tourniquet application were statistically significant for both serum cholesterol and total lipids. The third source of variation considered was the within-day and the day-to-day changes. Within-day changes were divided into within-hour and hour-to-hour effects. Day-to-day changes occurred over a two-week period. The magnitude and statistical significance of the changes were evaluated using an ANOVA model. The C.V.'s of day-to-day changes for cholesterol and total lipids (biologic) were 5.3% and 10.2%, respectively while the hour-to-hour within-day C.V.'s were 3.8% for cholesterol and 10.4% for serum total lipids. In all cases the biologic variation was in far excess of the analytic variation. The significance of these factors affecting intraindividual variation in healthy subject is discussed. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/998751/
Abstract: As show in 7,230 parent-child pairs (6,726 biological and 504 adoptive), adoptive parents and their adopted children tend to resemble each other in height, weight and fatfolds to an extent paralleling height, weight and fatfold resemblances of natural (biological) parents and their children. Accordingly, the magnitudes of parent-child resemblances commonly given may not be indicative of the extent of heritability of stature, weight and subcutaneous fat. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1046344/
Abstract: The author followed uropepsin in ulcer patients before and after a complex balneo-therapy in Hissar, where the following therapeutic complex was applied: 1) Tub bath--36-38 degrees C; 2) Drinking of mineral water--"Momina Slsa" spring (slightly mineralized, hydrocarbonate-sodium, slightly radioactive, fluor). Diet No 1 and physical excercises in hyperacidity. The author has established two-way changes in the values of the followed-up uropepsin, the high--decreased and the low--increased to normalization. The resulsts are statistically significant. Concluding he admits that uropepsin is a reliable method for investigation of the fermetformation function of gastric mucosa and for the assesment of the balneotherapy effect in sanatorium conditions. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1046619/
Abstract: A practical, easily applied approach to coronary heart disease rehabilitation has been reviewed. Good rehabilitation is nothing more than total patient care that begins on admission to hospital and continues for the remainder of the patient's life. Optimization of medical care, psychosocial and vocational adjustment, activity progression, reconditioning, and patient education must be constantly sought at all stages of the program. Consistency and thoroughness can be assured through the use of a few helpful forms and handouts. The real and potential benefits of a comprehensive cardiac rehabilitation program amply justify the effort in all clinical settings. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1046623/
Abstract: If a decrease in hospital readmissions and a reduction in the length of hospital stays as well as an improvement in the general health and quality of life in patients with congestive heart failure can occur with an educational process, then efforts in this direction should continue and be constantly improved. There is no magic formula in helping patients learn. The success of the teaching will depend on the individual patient's ability, willingness, and understanding, but it also depends on the ability, knowledge, imagination, and effort put forth on the part of the nurse teacher. Organizing group classes and employing pre-printed instructions and information, instead of on-the-spot written instructions by each individual teacher, are ways to enhance the success of the teaching as well as increasing interest on the part of the patients. Although these methods were not discussed by this author here, their use needs to be explored. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1064850/
Abstract: A screening procedure based on solvent extraction with minimal clean up followed by examination with negative chemical ionization mass spectrometry has been developed for organochlorine residues and related compounds with masses greater than 130 daltons. The procedure has been made quantitative for analysis of pentachlorophenol residues. A limited survey of human urines indicated extensive contamination of the subjects, studied at parts per billion and higher levels, with pentachlorophenol, 2, 4, 5-trichlorophenoxy acetic acid, other polychlorophenoxy acids, and numerous unknown compounds. In an attempt to define the source of the contamination, the screening procedure was applied to samples of environmental substrates. The results suggest the food chain as one significant source of the contamination. A preliminary study of organochlorine compounds in human seminal fluid showed pentachlorophenol and other organochlorine residues in every sample, a result which suggests that this area may merit additional monitoring. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1064580/
Abstract: The theory has been advanced that the anorexia of cancer is the result of anorexigenic peptides and of other intermediary metabolites produced by the cancer and the tumor-bearing host. These metabolites are the signals to peripheral receptors and to the brain centers and are responsible for the state of satiety and aversion to food. Although the only effective way to stimulate the appetite of the cancer patient is to control the cancer, efforts should be made to increase the calorie intake even in the presence of anorexia and to maintain a calorie equilibrium. However, controlled studies have not shown that forced feeding can reverse for long periods the progressive tissue wasting process or prolong the cancer patient's survival. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1064791/
Abstract: Sugar intolerance is a common problem in paediatric practice. The usual type is lactose intolerance following gastroenteritis, but it may also occur in a wide variety of disorders of the small bowel. Diagnosis depends upon identification of reducing substances in the stools. An approach to dietary management of lactose intolerance is given and use of a carbohydrate-free formula in secondary monosaccharide intolerance is described. In each situation, threshold for digestion or absorbtion of carbohydrate is approached gradually from below, and overflow detected by Clinitest stool testing. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1064576/
Abstract: The objective of this article is to familiarize the dentist with clinical signs and laboratory methods used in diagnosing nutritional deficiencies, and to indicate which laboratory methods may be useful to the clinician in cases of suspected nutritional deficiency. It should be noted that the suggested laboratory methods were selected on the basis of their applicability for the clinical situation as well as their reliability as indicators of nutritional status. Therefore these suggested methods of choice may not in every instance be the most accurate of all indicators of nutritional status for a particular nutrient. The dentist who wishes to utilize one of the laboratory methods has a number of options. He can take the appropriate sample in his office, or refer the patient directly to a clinical laboratory for the simpler analyses, or refer his patient to a physician for appropriate metabolic testing. The first option may be more appropriate for the dentist practicing in areas where a clinical laboratory is not within reasonable distance. In this instance the dentist should contact the laboratory for specific information, such as sample volume and special instructions for taking, handling, and shipping the sample. The second option is available to the dentist practicing in an urban area where clinical laboratory facilities are readily available. Finally, the dentist should work in conjunction with a physician when complex metabolic testing is required. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1064904/
Abstract: The influence of a standardized breakfast meal on the absorption of iron from two types of iron tablets - rapidly-disintegrating and slow-release tablets - was studied in 24 healthy subjects, using a serum iron technique and whole-body counter measurements. The meal markedly reduced the absorption of iron from both types of tablets. An 8-fold reduction was found with the rapidly-disintegrating tablets and a 3-fold reduction with the slow-release tablets. Under fasting conditions the rapidly-disintegrating tablets were significantly better absorbed than the slow-release tablets, whereas the reverse was found when the tablets were given with the meal. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1065206/
Abstract: The concepts and goals of a program in adolescent medicine should include development of a capability to focus on current health needs of youth in a variety of settings; to plan clinical services to meet those needs with the flexibility necessary to respond to changing future requirements; and to deliver service within such a context while simulataneously creating a milieu conducive to education and investigation into the very process and definition of adolescence. The Division of Adolescent Medicine at Montefiore Hospital and Medical Center was designed 7 years ago to fulfill these goals and consequently may serve others as a functional model for health care delivery to teenagers. The Division is comprised of: (1) a 37 bed in-patient unit; (2) a hospital-based ambulatory program including general diagnostic and follow-up services, as well as a speciality service capability in the areas of gynecology and family planning, cardiology, gastroenterology and nutrition; (3) primary care health services within teenage dentention and prison facilities; (4) addictive disease diagnostic and treatment programs; (5) school health programs from intermediate school through college levels, and (6) the division also performs supportive and consultative functions for a variety of community-based agencies. Within the programatic design approximately 70,000 adolescents have been served. The cornerstone of the educational and investigative efforts has been the concept that all the above six functional units are clinical laboratories and classrooms so that training and research activities are integral parts of each of the service areas. This program design is continually undergoing revision and refinement so as to remain ever-responsive to new and emerging problems to meet additional training demands and, most importantly, to permit and encourage creativity and growth patients and staff. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1065215/
Abstract: Most street hallucinogens contain either LSD or phenycyclidine HCl (PCP). Because the acute phase of LSD and PCP mimic several other drugs and conditions, it is important to exclude these other possibilities. When faced with LSD or PCP, "talking down" usually suffices for the mild case; management becomes more complex should hyperpyrexia, coma, seizures or a hypertensive crisis ensue. Diazepam, not a phenothiazine, is preferred for sedation. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1065179/
Abstract: It is attempted to discuss the intestinal lipid metabolism particularly as it relates to systemic lipid and lipoprotein metabolism. In an introductory review of recent concepts of intestinal fat absorption special reference is given to the significance of the mixed lipid micelle during the intraluminal phase of fat absorption, to special morphological and functional features of the lumen-absorptive cell interface and to the proposed role of a fatty acid binding protein in the intracellular transport of long chain fatty acids. Furthermore the metabolic fate of absorbed fatty acids within the absorptive epithelial cell is reviewed and pointed out, that certain proteins (f.i. apoprotein B) are of crucial significance for the export of intestinal lipids into lymph. Absorption of dietary fat, however, is not the only function of the intestine in lipid metabolism. Intestinal mucosa is also capable of de novo synthesis of lipids, a function which is elaborated upon in the discussion of intestinal biosynthesis of cholesterol. Since in addition biosynthesis of cholesterol in the liver has been shown to be under sensitive control of cholesterol in intestinal lymph lipoproteins and the intestine represents the only organ, in which serum cholesterol can be excreted (after conversion to bile salts in the liver), the intestine occupies the central role in cholesterol metabolism. The intensive interrelation of intestinal functions and systemic lipoprotein metabolism is underscored by the more recent finding, that the intestine also synthesizes endogenous lipoproteins, which are secreted constantly into intestinal lymph even in the fasting state, thus contributing to plasma very low density lipoproteins. The intestine is the only organ, in which extrahepatic production of endogenous lipoproteins has been demonstrated. In the special section of this paper own original work is presented, elaborating on intestinal metabolism of plasma free fatty acids (FFA) and dealing with the important question, whether plasma FFA are incorporated into intestinal lymph lipoproteins. Studies were conducted in rats initially, which were given a rapid i.v. injection of labelled fatty acids. Mucosal radioactivity of the small intestine was greatest 2 minutes after i.v. 14C-palmitate, and accounted for 1% of administered isotope. Of mucosal 14C, 42% were present in water soluble metabolites, including CO2 and ketoacids, 28% in phospholipids and only 16% in triglycerides. The specific activity of mucosal triglyceride fatty acids (TGFA) was 11 times that of serum TGFA, confirming triglyceride synthesis by intestinal mucosa. The unexpectedly low percent incorporation of 14C-palmitate into triglycerides and its preferential conversion to water soluble metabolites, reflecting oxidation, were confirmed in double label experiments (3H-palmitate intraluminally, 14C-palmitate i.v.), which showed marked differences in the metabolism of fatty acids entering mucosa simultaneously from the two sources. While i.v... 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1065270/
Abstract: An electronic method of recording displacement was used to study mandibular movement during mastication. The technique enables the parameters of muscle activity, the sound of tooth contact, the force developed between opposing teeth, and the displacement of the mandible to be recorded at the same time on a single U/V chart. Previous reports on mandibular movement using cine-photographic techniques were confirmed in relation to mastication, but additional information was obtained in relation to muscle activity in the final closing movements. It appears that tooth contact initiates a latent-silent period in masseter and temporalis which occurs before movement is arrested in the final intercuspal position. It is considered that the kinetic energy of the mandible on closing is reduced by the cessation of activity in these two muscles during the silent period and finally absorbed by the crushing of food during the terminal intercuspal slide to rest. A description of mastication is given and a theory advanced that this may be controlled by a central clock mechanism. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1065444/
Abstract: The erdication of established neuroleukaemia is often difficult, and with subsequent relapses even harder. The use of an intrathecally-injected beta emitting isotope has the advantage of preserving the bone-marrow of the vertebral column and cranium whislt irradiating the meninges. The value of intrathecal 90Y-DTPA(diethylene-triamine penta-acetic acid) has been investigated in nine patients with neuroleukaemia or CNS involvement in malignant lymphoma. Measurements of retention of the isotope in the whole body, spinal, and intracranial subarachnoid spaces have been made, together with blood levels, and are reported. The clinical results are presented. In three out of five evaluable patients 90Y-DTPA failed to maintain a chemotherapy-induced CNS remission and in two out of two evaluable patients malignant cells were not dispersed from the CNS with a single intrathecal injection of 90Y-DTA. It is concluded, therefore, that with this agent and the doses used no useful clinical result is gained. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1065737/
Abstract: Two groups of patients were evaluated for the presence of active, restored, and recurrent root surface caries. One group of 120 subjects had received treatment for moderate to severe periodontitis. The second group consisted of 124 subjects who were affected by moderate to severe periodontitis but had received no treatment. The two groups were also evaluated for amounts of recession, pocket depth, and the presence of bacterial plaque. In addition, each subject was asked to compile a record of his/her dietary intake for a seven-day period. The treated group was found to brush and floss more frequently than the untreated group and had a lower mean plaque score (45.8), than the untreated group (61.4). There was no difference in the mean plaque scores for the subgroups with and without root surface caries within either the treated groups. The prevalence of root surface caries increased through age 59 in the treated group, then diminished after age 60. In the untreated group the prevalence increased steadily with age. Analysis of the data from the dietary hisories revealed that the subjects in both the treated and the untreated groups who were affected with root surface caries had a significantly higher (P less than 0.01) number of fermentable carbohydrate exposures per week. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1065694/
Abstract: Clinical and microbiologic measures of oral health were assessed in all crew members of each Skylab mission. Clinical factors included preflight and postflight clinical services, provisions for in-flight emergency dental care, and the preflight and postflight monitoring of alterations in clinical indexes of oral health. Microbiologic measures included the preflight and postflight monitoring of changes in microbial populations at various intraoral sites. Problems involving preflight and postflight clinical services were minimal and easily resolved. In-flight dental problems requiring emergency self-treatment were not encountered. Moderate increases were observed in the in-flight increments of dental plaque, calcalus, and gingival inflammation. With the possible exception of gingival inflammation, mission-related changes in clinical indexes of oral health mainly corresponded to those of comparable periods under more conventional circumstances. Microbiologic assessments showed noteworthy elevations in counts of specific anaerobic components of the oral microflora, streptococci, neisseria, lactobacilli, and enteric bacilli. Since most microbial changes occurred after the preflight incorporation of the space diet, they were believed to be diet related. The most meaningful finding of the study was the relative absence of intraoral changes that are hazardous to one's health. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1065739/
Abstract: Forty pregnant women in each of three trimesters of pregnancy and forty nonpregnant women of comparable age, socioeconomic status and dietary habit have been examined to evaluate the gingival condition and the calculus and debris deposits. The study has shown that: There is a significant increase in the severity of gingivitis during pregnancy; The gingival changes progressively increase during the course of pregnancy; The gingival changes are more marked than the periodontal changes seen during pregnancy (increase in periodontal disease was seen in only a limited number of cases); There was an appreciable increase in the calculus and debris deposits in the pregnant as compared to the nonpregnant women; Increase in the calculus and debris deposits was apparent in all the trimesters of pregnancy; Gingival changes showed a greater correlation with the calculus and the debris index in the pregnant than in the nonpregnant women; The role of the irritant oral deposits either as a precipitating or perpetuating factor in the genesis of gingivitis during pregnancy can not be excluded. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1065903/
Abstract: This study was undertaken to examine the influence of nutritional factors on the activity of the mixed function oxidase system in man, which is cytochrome P-450 dependent. Three normal volunteers were fed a low carbohydrate-high protein diet for 2 weeks, followed by a high carbohydrate-low protein diet for the follwoing 2 weeks. At the end of each test diet period, the plasma elimination rates of antipyrine and theophylline were determined. The mean plasma half-life for antipyrine was 17.5 hr on the high carbohydrate-low protein diet and 9.2 hr on the low carbohydrate-high protein diet. The mean plasma half-life for theophylline was 8.9 hr on the high carbohydrate-low protein diet and 5.9 hr on the low carbohydrate-high protein diet. These data demonstrate marked influences of dietary carbohydrate and/or protein ingestion on oxidative biotransformation of drugs in man. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1065944/
Abstract: Urinary fluoride (F) excretion has been studied in small children, with some comparisons with adults, following ingestion of F tablets or fluoridated salt (F-salt) containing 500 mg F/kg NaCl. 24-h urinary F in 7- to 8-year-old children in an institution and in 2- to 12-year-old children in families rapidly increased to average levels of about 0.85 and 0.55 parts/10(6), respectively, when the children had their meals spiced with F-salt. Children in families also showed significantly elevated urinary F excretion with two F-salted meals a day but not with one a day. After taking 0.5 mg F in the form of NaF tablets a group of children without previous F supply attained within 1 d a 24-h urinary F concentration which was about the same as that in children who had been taking caries-preventive tablet doses for years. The percentage of a single F dose excreted in the urine within 4 h after the ingestion of F tablets or an F-salted standard meal was about the same in preschool children and middle-aged adults. F quantities of the order 1.5-2 mg could be ingested by a child eating a meal comprising strongly F-salted dishes, and the urine could reach concentrations around 3 parts/10(6) F during the following 2-4 h. The results obtained support the concept that domestic salt containing about 500 parts/10(6) F is suitable for clinical testing on a larger scale under Swedish conditions. Calculations of F supplies to children aged 2 months-7 years with different diets and water and salt F contents are presented as diagrams. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1066203/
Abstract: Twenty thousand Arabs of various nationalities living in Kuwait have been investigated over the past 5 years; 5,470 (27%) manifested recurrent aphthous ulcerations (RAU). Non-Kuwaiti Arabs were affected more the Kuwaitis and the prevalence of the disease was respectively 35% and 18%. Among Kuwaitis, only 5% of the Bedouins manifested the diseases whereas 22% of urbanized Arabs were affected. The ratio of the affected females to males in this study was 6:5. The clinical course of RAU in Arabs was similar to that reported in other populations. Various environmental factors such as stressful conditions, social tradition and obligations, and the allergenic Arabic food seemed to affect the prevalence of RAU in different Arab communities. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1066220/
Abstract: Mandibular movements of test persons with eugnathic and dysgnathic dentitions were compared with each other by kinematographic tests and evaluation of single photographs. No essential differences in coarse movements are discernible. Neither form nor extent of the masticatory movements are significantly influenced by any dysgnathia or the type of food chewed. The testing method applied does not furnish any information on movements in the occlusion phase. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1066230/
Abstract: In all countries with a lack of manpower in dentistry, there is an unfortunate tendency to leave the primary teeth without proper conservative treatment. In addition to toothaches and poor esthetics, a neglected care of the primary dentition may result in several other untoward effects. Decayed deciduous teeth may cause such a discomfort during tooth-brushing that the child is prevented from learning good oral hygiene habits. With bad primary molars the child cannot chew properly, and may have to choose soft and often cariogenic food. When the permanent teeth erupt among the decayed deciduous teeth, there will be a greater chance for them to have carious attacks as well. Premature loss of primary molars may lead to malocclusion. It must also be kept in mind that the treatment of badly decayed teeth, including necessary extractions, may be difficult. This may cause fear of dental treatment. On the basis of current Swedish philosophies of treatment the author surveys various conservative procedures for deciduous teeth-amalgam therapy, stainless steel crowns, composites and disking. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1026506/
Abstract: Aminoalkyl benzenesulfonyl fluorides, like organophosphates, act as irreversible inhibitors of serine proteinases by splitting off hydrogen fluoride to form an enzyme-inhibitor complex, stable in the physiological pH region. Several of these compounds are characterized by a higher rate of inhibition when trypsin is used and the second order rate constants are compared with those of organophosphates. On the other hand, upon inhibition of human serum cholinesterase by DFP and 4-nitrophenyl diethyl phosphate, some orders of magnitude higher than that of benzenesul fonyl fluorydes are observed. As shown by an oral toxicity study in mice similar differences exist with respect to LD50 values. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1026409/
Abstract: The modern consumer is exposed to a wide variety of plastic and rubber products in his day to day life: at home, work, school, shopping, recreation and play, and transport. A large variety of toxic sequellae have resulted from untoward exposures by many different routes: oral, dermal, inhalation, and parenteral. Toxic change may result from the plastic itself, migration of unbound components and additives, chemical decomposition or toxic pyrolysis products. The type of damage may involve acute poisoning, chronic organ damage, reproductive disorders, and carcinogenic, mutagenic and teratogenic episodes. Typical examples for all routes are cited along with the activites of Canadian regulatory agencies to reduce both the incidence and severity of plastic-induced disease. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1026406/
Abstract: Recent experimental studies in Japan on the evaluation of potential health hazards from phthalate esters used in manufacturing poly (vinyl chloride) as well as several plastics for medical devices and for food containers and packages were introduced. Development of pulmonary granuloma formation after intravenous injection of diethylhexyl phthalate was assumed to be dependent on the particle size of the phthalate in vehicle used. Dietary administration of large amount of diethylhexyl phthalate and dibutyl phthalate produced renal cysts in mothers and in descendants in reproduction studies in mice. Cytotoxicity and mutagenicity of the phthalates and several plastics and resins were also examined by in vivo and in vitro studies. Hematological parameters examined in rabbits after repeated intravenous injection of diethylhexyl phthalate and after implantation of plastics in aorta for 3--6 months did not show any significant change. A slow decrease of radioactivity was observed in adipose tissue of rats following oral administration of 14C-labeled diethylhexyl phthalate. tthe administrative action on phthalates by the Japanese Ministry of Health and Welfare is briefly reviewed. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1026225/
Abstract: The content of mineral salts in all diseases of the skeleton has greater or less deviations from the norm. The change of the mineral content can be visually determined in routine roentgenograms when the deviation is not less than 20-30% from normal. This estimation has a great share of subjectivism. The optical density of the bone in roentgenogram objectively shows the content of calcium salts and its structure. Under study was the influence of soft tissues surrounding the lumbar part of the vertebral column upon the optical density index. Ten preparations of lumbar divisions by means of the aluminium wedge. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1026621/
Abstract: Though ethyl alcohol is known to be one of the exogenous toxins that can directly damage the myocardium, nonalcoholic additives to alcoholic beverages (as well as poor nutrition or viral infection) may also play a role in cardiomyopathy. The authors note the interesting fact that, unlike the liver, the heart does not contain an alcohol dehydrogenase and thus lacks a possible protective mechanism against alcohol's toxicity. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1027734/
Abstract: In a group of nine healthy but obese women a set of tests were used to estimate several physiological and psycho-physiological variables: self-rating of hunger, mood and physical vigor, self-recording of grip-strength, muscular fatigue test, eye-hand skill, tempo, etc. Measurements were performed every 6-hours, at fixed times, during 24-hours, once a week, before (non-restricted spontaneous food intake) and for three weeks on a 220 cal. special protein diet (calcium caseinate: 55g, associated with potassium salts, water and vitamins). Findings relating to the metabolic and hormonal variables while on this diet have already been reported: (a) The diet does not alter the circadian acrophase (peak) of the variables and (b) two distinct metabolic steps occur: first a peak of gluconeogenesis and second, a phase when ketone bodies and fatty acids are used almost exclusively as source of fuel. The present findings show that so long as nitrogen remains in balance this restricted diet (a) does not change the grip strength and the muscular fatigue test; (b) does not alter the mood, the physical vigor etc. and (c) induces a statistically significant fall in "hunger" (self-rating method). We conclude that this low protein diet is compatible with non-strenuous work. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1041629/
Abstract: It is virtually impossible to discuss diet and drug therapy separately in the treatment of the hemodialysis patient. Drugs and dialysis techniques often necessitate changes in dietary care, just as dietary indiscretions call for changes in drug therapy and dialysis. In order to coordinate the various facets when ordering diets, several factors must be considered. The physician plans the drug therapy with input from the dialysis nurses, especially for dialysis effects on salt, water, K+, and protein balance, and the dietitian coordinates the diet with drug and dialysis therapy. It is therefore essential that all personnel must interact as a team if the patient is to receive the maximum benefit of hemodialysis. To maintain this delicate, constantly changing approach, a balance of teamwork is essential. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1095012/
Abstract: A brief review of the present knowledge of vitamin A (both performed and precursor forms) absorption is outlined with special emphasis on the dietary factors involved in this process. Some details are discussed related to the techniques used for measurement of vitamin A absorption from different sources and under different experimental conditions. Suggestions are also made to standardize appropriate procedure in this respect; this might enable comparisons and wide use of respective results obtained in various laboratories. Nutritional significance, including advantages or disadvantages of the liver test in these studies, is specifically highlighted with special reference to the determination of vitamin A bio-potency in various products. Some selected results and experience in this field are briefly presented. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1095026/
Abstract: The Authors describe the various anomalies of the metabolism of tryptophan that are observed in various diseases. The oxidative pathway is most important of the metabolic pathway of the amino acid; the degredation of tryptophan is particularly influenced by steroid hormones and vitamins' want. The metabolic anomalies are demonstrable both in malignant tumors (mostly in bladder cancer and Hodgkin's disease), both during psychiatric diseases (such as depression and schizophrenia) and in the diseases of connective tissue in addition to congenital errors of the degradation of tryptophan (such as Hartnup's disease, tryptophanuria and 3-hydroxychinureninuria). The metabolic pictures are manifest after amino acid's in the diseases of connective tissue but are independent for clinical seriousness and, in any case, less significant than those observed in other pathological pictures, mostly in Hodgkin's disease. The existence of anomalies of tryptophan's metabolism is certainly shown in many diseases, however the true physiopathogenetic meaning of these metabolic alterations is not yet specified. Particularly it is not definite if these alterations are the cause of diseases, which they appear in, or if they are secondary alterations. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1095040/
Abstract: Skills related to driving, the ability to discriminate the fusion of flickering light, and hand and foot proprioception, were measured double-blind in 34 healthy volunteers before and after three doses of i.v. diazepam. The effects of diazepam were most harmful to co-ordination. With 0.15 mg/kg, 0.30 mg/kg and 0.45 mg/kg of diazepam the impairment of co-ordinative skills was statistically significant (P less than 0.05) up to 2, 6 and 8 hr respectively. No impairment of performance on any test was measurable at 6 hr after 0.15 mg/kg or at 10 hr after 0.30 or 0.45 mg/kg of diazepam. There were large interindividual variations in serum concentrations of diazepam within each dose level. The increases in serum concentrations of diazepam after the intake of food support the concept of an enterohepatic cycle for diazepam. It was concluded that patients should not drive or operate machinery for at least 6 hr after 0.15 mg/kg of i.v. diazepam and at least 10 hr after 0.30 mg/kg and 0.45 mg/kg. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1095027/
Abstract: In each one of the samples, investigation of osmolarity, concentration of sodium chloride and proteins and bacteria was carried out. With these data, concentration of solutes in milks was estimated, together with a calculation of renal charge they represented. The most outstanding results showed that mothers offer whole and half skimmed milks at concentrations less than normal dilutions; thus, the solute charge was found in most cases, far below figures reported as average. In a good number of milks, osmolarity showed to very high, specially in those added with corn syrup. Only in 9 of the formulas germs were not identified; in the rest, E. coli predominated and there was high index of contamination. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1095103/
Abstract: 74 patients with prostatic cancer were studied annually by combined radiological and fluorine-18 scan survey over a 5-year period. The results of the long term follow-up of bone cans is reported. At the time of the initial diagnosis 71-5% of the patients had advanced disease and 56% had radiological or scan evidence of metastases. A critical evaluation of the scans resulted in the detection of early bone lesions in 25% of patients with no radiological evidence of metastases. Follow-up of these patients has shown that scan abnormalities preceded radiological changes from between 1 to 4 years and there was good correlation proven histologically by bone biopsy or autopsy in more than half of the patients. In patients with a positive bone scan and positive X-rays the scan abnormalities were more extensive than the corresponding X-ray lesions. When bone healing occurred with endocrine treatment this was more readily apparent on the X-rays. False negative scans were not seen with fluorine-18 which allows for greater accuracy in the detection of skeletal metastases. Bone scanning has enabled correct staging to be carried out. This study confirms the high incidence of cardiac and vascular complications in patients treated with oestrogens. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1095266/
Abstract: A study of serum proteins in patients on regular hemodialysis has shown that many have low serum transferrin levels but near normal serum albumin and normal or raised pre-albumin levels. Hemoglobin values were related to transferrin levels. Low transferrin levels also occurred in patients with advanced osteitis fibrosa. Deficient protein intake seems the likely explanation. Measurement of pre-albumin does not reflect low protein intake in chronic renal failure; reasons for this discussed. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1095277/
Abstract: Somatomedin is a peptide component of serum which has been postulated to mediate the action of growth hormone on skeletal tissue. Direct effects on cartilage include stimulation of the synthesis of mucopolysacharide, protein, and nucleic acids. Insulin-like effects on non-skeletal tissues and cells have been described, and a relationship to NSILA-S and MSA has been suggested. The liver may be an important source. Non-specificity of bioassays is a problem. Growth hormone deficiency, malnutrition, therapy with corticosteroids or estrogens, and a type of dwarfism characterized by high serum growth hormone are associated with decreased somatomedin. An unexplained phenomenon is the normal somatomedin with low or undetectable growth hormone in certain cases of craniopharyngioma or other tumors involving the hypothalamus. Somatomedin is increased in acromegaly. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1095293/
Abstract: Angiostrongyliasis is an infectious disease caused by nematode parasites of the genus Angiostrongylus. The rat lung worm Angiostrongylus cantonensis, primarily a parasite of rodents, is largely responsible for human cases of eosinophilic meningitis, or meningoencerphalitis, which occurs on many Pacific islands and in Southeast Asia. The disorder, which frequently occurs in epidemic extent, is caused by invasion of the central nervous system by developing larvae of the parasite. The infection is most frequently due to ingestion of food containing the infective, third-state, larvae. Meningitic and ocular forms of the disease have been recognized. The disease has been described or referred to under a variety of synonyms. The terms eosinophilic meningitis, eosinophilic meningoencephalitis, and epidemic eosinophilic meningitis were first used to describe the disease before its etiology was known. These terms, however, lack specificity, because the eosinophilic meningitic syndrome may accompany many other parasitic as well as nonparasitic diseases of the central nervous system. Nevertheless, they are still being widely used, since in most cases only the epidemiology of the disease points to the etiologic role of A. cantonensis. Direct clinical or laboratory evidence of the etiologic agent is usually not established because reliable tests are not yet available. The term angiostrongylosis, or angiostrongyliasis, if used without the adjective, also may give rise to confusion, since the same term is applied to the pulmonary infection of dogs by A. vasorum and might be used for infection by any other Angiostrongylus species. Even the term cerebral or ocular angiostrongyliasis may prove in the future to have similar disadvantages. The scientifically correct term angiostrongyliasis cantonensis has been used recently. It is sufficiently specific and formed in analogy to the names of other parasitic diseases of man, like schistosomiasis japonica, schistosomiasis mansoni, schistosomiasis haematobia. For the murine infection, as well as for the disease produced experimentally in animals, the term angiostrongylosis cantonensis ought to be reserved because of the preferential use by veterinarians of the ending osis for designation of pathological changes produced in animals by parasites. After the recent discovery of A. costaricensis, another rat parasite causing human disease in Costa Rica, it becomes necessary to distinguish between angiostrongyliasis cantonensis (eosinophilic meningitis) and angiostrongyliasis costaricensis (intra-abdominal eosinophilic granulomatosis). A potential disadvantage of these terms may be encountered in case of a systemic revision or reclassification of the parasite. This has happened at intervals. A. cantonensis was named Pulmonema cantonensis by its discoverer and later was described under the name Haemostrongylus ratti. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1095439/
Abstract: The effects of acute and chronic differences in the carbohydrate content of the diet on plasma insulin, glucagon, insulin-glucagon molar ratio (I/G), and triglycerides were studied. Acute effects were studied by varying the carbohydrate content of a single test meal, while chronic effects were determined by varying the carbohydrate content of the diet for a week. A test meal containing 0.6 gm of gelatin per kilogram plus 0.6 gm. per kilogram of glucose resulted in much higher levels of insulin and I/G (p smaller than 0.005), lower glucagon levels (p smaller than 0.05), and slightly higher triglycerides (N.S.) than did a meal of 1.2 gm, per kilogram of gelatin alone. One week of a 12 gm. carbohydrate, 2870-calorie diet lowered insulin (p smaller than 0.001), I/G (p smaller than 0.05), and triglycerides (p smaller than 0.001) and increased glucagon (N.S.), whereas a 390-gm. carbohydrate, 2784-calorie intake significantly increased insulin, I/G, and triglycerides (p smaller than 0.005) and lowered glucagon (p smaller than 0.02) within two days; even greater changes in hormones were observed on a 510-gm. carbohydrate intake. Of those patients in whom a high carbohydrate intake induced a triglyceride rise of at least 40 mg. per deciliter, a significant correlation between the change in I/G and the change in triglycerides was noted (r equals 0.85; p smaller than 0.01). The results are compatible with but do not prove the proposal that pancreatic alpha and beta cells play a mediating role in carbohydrate induction of hyperlipidemia. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1109534/
Abstract: Among patients receiving thiazides for hypertension, there was no reliable predictor of those who would develop significant hypokalemia (a decrease in serum potassium of at least 0.5 mEq. per L). Eighty percent of patients required 60 mEq. of potassium chloride 10 percent elixir daily for successful treatment of thiazide-induced hypokalemia. Foods containing potassium or organic anion compounds of potassium are not useful in this potentially dangerous situation. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1109500/
Abstract: Gastroesophageal reflux is not synonymous with sliding hiatus hernia. It should be approached as a condition dependent on the intrinsic strength of the lower esophageal sphincter rather than on the presence of a hiatus hernia. The patient's account of symptoms is probably the most important means of diagnosis, but in addition the patient's history should be supplemented by radiographic evaluation. Initially the treatment of gastroesophageal reflux is one of prevention. If this conservative approach proves ineffective, drugs that restore sphincter strength can be tried. Surgery should be resorted to only if medical treatment fails, and then one of the newer specific antireflux procedures should be the operation of choice. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1109499/
Abstract: Patients with functional bowel disease commonly complain of abdominal pain, bloating, and excessive flatulence and eructation. Pain and bloating may be primarily caused by abnormal intestinal motility rather than by excessive intestinal gas. As yet there are no data available that prove excessive flatulence is actually caused by the presence of excessive intestinal gas. A study of the composition of intestinal gas provides insight into whether it is derived from swallowed air or from intraluminal metabolism. Therapy aims primarily at excluding the presence of organic disease as a cause and reassuring the patient that the disorder is functional in nature. Dietary manipulation, changing the habit of aerophagia, exercise, and pressure and heat applied to be abdominal area are all possibilities to be tried. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1109493/
Abstract: Most gallstones are composed largely or entirely of cholesterol. The larger calculi are more often associated with acute cholecystitis than are smaller stones. Factors predisposing to gallstone formation include sex, age, race, child-bearing, and possibly diet and obesity. About half of all persons with cholelithiasis have symptoms referable to the biliary tract. The most important symptom in the diagnosis of gallstone disease is biliary colic. Biliary pain lasting longer than five or six hours is indicative of acute cholecystitis, with obstruction of the cystic duct by a calculus as the primary event in most instances. The reliability of cholecystography in detecting gallstones is at least 95 percent. In patients over age 60, cholecystectomy is indicated only in those with specific symptoms referable to the biliary tract. The effectiveness of chenodeoxycholic acid in dissolving radiolucent gallstones in asymptomatic patients has been confirmed in several clinical trials. Early operation in patients with acute cholecystitis is advocated. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1109736/
Abstract: Many complex forces are at work during adolescence which can contribute to the occurrence of anemia. Careful consideration of the entire patient should enable a physician to identify the unusual as well as the more common causes of anemia in this age group. Anemia in teenage girls is primarily due to menstrual iron loss. In boys, borderline diets and the demands of rapid growth predominate as causative factors. Hemoglobinopathies (thalassemia, sickle cell disease), G6PD deficiency, infectious mononucleosis, and illicit drug use account for small proportions of cases. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1109812/
Abstract: The authors analyzed the prescriptions in an old age pensioners home in Rokytnice near Prerov (240 people) in 1966-1972 and the assembled results were compared with drug expenditure in an old age pensioners home in Radkova Lhota (102 people) in 1972). Almost half the people in these homes suffer from at least three diseases which must be considered during drug pprscription; the great moribidity explains the almost fivefold expenditure on drugs per head, as compared with ambulatory care. Prescription of psychopharmaceutical preparations, antibiotics, analgetics and bronchodilatating drugs corresponds to the principles of expedient pharmacotherapy. More attention must be devoted to the dosage of cardiotonics. Geriatric drugs and vitamins, specially ascorbic acid are prescribed little. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1110296/
Abstract: A mail survey was conducted to investigate the relationship between previous nutrition education in high school home economics classes and the present nutritional knowledge, attitudes, and practices of Ohio high school graduates. Findings revealed that young women previously enrolled in home economics courses with a unit in food, nutrition, and health did not achieve significantly higher scores in tests of nutritional knowledge, attitudes, and practices than did those who had not been exposed to such nutritional education. Attitudes toward food and nutrition were found to mediate the nutritional knowledge and practices of these high school graduates. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1110294/
Abstract: There are two primary purposes and uses of dietary standards--the planning of diets or food supplies and the evaluation of dietary histories. It is argured that no single set of dietary standards can adequately fulfill both functions. The design of diets requires considerations other than estimates of nutritional needs--food supplies, food habits, and so forth--and must ordinarily provide the needs of groups ofmixed age, sex, and activity. Standards based on nutrient density may be the most useful for this purpose. The evaluation of the nutritional adequacy of foods eaten must be based on estimates of nutritional need. How, in applying, such standards, consideration must be given to the variability in nutrient intake from day to day. Current methods of evaluating dietary data inevitably overestimate the number of individuals at risk of nutritional deficiency. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1110193/
Abstract: In India, nearly 1.5% of the population is blind due to cataracts, most of them mature. The facilities available for eye operations are not adequate to restore sight to all these people, so eye camps are conducted all over India. A massive eye camp project begun in June 1972 fixed a goal of 100,000 cataract operations a year in the eye camps. About 50,000 cataract operations were done in that period. Most of the people who receive operations are poor and they are provided with free surgery, medicine, food, and glasses. This project will continue until enough eye hospitals are built to accommodate all the patients in our locality. The other states in India are planning similar programs. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1110301/
Abstract: Data gathered during the decade 1962-1972 on Dial-a-Dietitian as a community service of the Columbus Dietetic Association support the usefulness of this unique experiment in community nutrition education. The image of the dietitian as a spokesman for the science of nutrition and as a contributing member of the health team should be advanced in every way possible. Dial-a-Dietitian is a realistic vehicle which offers much needed assistance. There emerges the need for individualized diet counseling with a fee-for-service and referral from the physician or dentist. Dial-a-Dietitian might then be in a position to direct its enery and resources toward better serving community needs with respect to normal nutrition education. District dietetic associations should define and redefine the objectives to be served by the Dial-a-Diettian program as these relate to specific and changing requirements. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1110234/
Abstract: Circadian rhythms of plasma potassium concentration and urinary potassium excretion persisted in three normal volunteers when diurnal variations in activity, posture, and dietary intake were eliminated for 3-10 days. Measurements of the arteriovenous difference in plasma potassium concentration across the resting forearm and of erythrocyte potassium concentration suggested that there is a net flux of potassium from ICF to ECF in the early morning and a reverse net flux later in the day. The total net ICF-ECF fluxes were estimated from the diurnal variations in extracellular potassium content corrected for dietary intake and urinary potassium loss. The net fluxes between ICF and ECF were found to be counterbalanced by the circadian rhythm in urinary potassium excretion. Desynchronization of these rhythms would result in marked fluctuations in extracellular potassium content. These findings suggest that some revision is required of the concept of basal state in potassium homeostasis. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1110295/
Abstract: The nutritional status of 247 black preschoolers in two counties of Mississippi was studied by relating caloric and nutrient intakes and anthropometric measurements to homemaker's education, family income, and participation in Food Stamp and donated food programs..23AUTHOR Low intakes of calories, iron, calcium, vitamin A, and ascorbic acid were found in many of the children, regardless of the variable considered. These findings--in comparison with similar studies--imply that, as time passes, low education and income are having less impact on child nutrition. This ameliorating effect may be due to programs designed to educate parents and extend purchasing power of food dollars. Thus, it seems advisable to continue these programs.?23AUTHOR 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1110626/
Abstract: The intravenous infusion of glucose was found to alter profoundly the response of insulin and glucagon to an intraduodenally administered fat meal in conscious dogs from that of dogs given only intravenous saline as a control. In the latter, insulin rose only 4 muu/ml and glucagon rose from 142 SEM plus or minus 8 to a peak of 221 pg/ml SEM plus or minus 50. When glucose was infused, raising plasma glucose above 173 mg/100 ml, the administration of fat was associated with a rise in mean insulin to 344 muu/ml, and glucagon remained suppressed by hyperglycemia to below baseline level, despite the fat meal. The peak insulin response to a fat meal plus glucose infusion was more than three times the peak level observed when glucose was infused alone without a meal or with a nonabsorbable intraduodenal volume load in the form of mineral oil. This suggests that the absorption of fat elicits an entero-insular signal that is greatly potentiated by exogenous glucose. These glucose-induced changes in the hormonal response to a fat meal may mediate certain of the metabolic effects of carbohydrates. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1110625/
Abstract: Animal experiments have suggested a FFA control mechanism for glucagon secretion. In man, the potent effect of FFA on HGH secretion and the similarity of the secretory control mechanisms for HGH and IRG also support a role of FFA in IRG secretion. Our studies in man in which plasma FFA were elevated by either an oral lipid emulsion (Lipomul) or an intravenous lipid suspension (Intralipid)suggest only a minor role of lipids in control of IRG secretion. Plasma FFA and triglyceride elevations did not suppress arginine- or hypoglycemia-induced plasma IRG elevations, but an inhibitory effect of Intralipid on basal plasma IRG concentrations was observed. Although nicotinic acid administration, which caused a depression in plasma FFA, did elevate plasma IRG, the IRG elevation was considered more likely a consequence of stress induced by the drug. The failure of lipids to inhibit IRG secretion at FFA concentrations inhibiting HGH secretion indicates a dissociation in the secretory control mechanisms of the two hormones. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1126056/
Abstract: (1)Plasma and urinary levels of methylguanidine, guanidinosuccinic acid and guanidinoacetic acid were measured in normal subjects and in patients with renal failure. (2)Urinary excretion of methylguanidinosuccinic acid was increased in renal failure. Plasma guanidinosuccinic acid concentration was increased and was significantly correlated with the plasma urea concentration. The plasma concentration of methylguanidine was not consistently elevated probably because of an adaptive increase in renal tubular excretion. The excretion of guanidinoacetic acid was decreased in renal failure and plasma concentration remained low. (3) All three guanidines were removed by haemodialysis and their plasma concentrations, although not normal, were much lower in regularly dialysed subjects. (4) Guanidinosuccinic acid and methylguanidine appear to provide alternative pathways for the excretion of nitrogen in patients with renal failure. In advanced uraemia the plasma concentration of methylguanidine and guanidinosuccinic acid may reach levels which have been associated with toxic effects. However, their importance in relation to other uraemic toxins remains difficult to assess. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1126130/
Abstract: 1. The relation between endogenous urea metabolism and albumin synthesis has been studied in ten patients with chronic renal failure and in four normal subjects, after single intravenous injections of [14-C]urea,[15-N]urea and 125-I-labelled albumin. 2. The rate of urea synthesis was determined from the dynamics of plasma [14-C]urea specific radioactivity and the rate of urea metabolism was estimated from the relative rates of urea synthesis and urea appearance in urine and body water. Deconvolution analysis of plasma [15N]albumin enrichmevt and 125-i-labelled albumin radioactivity yielded the cumulative incorporation of 15-N into total exchangeable albumin and enabled calculation of the absolute rate of urema nitrogen utilization for albumin synthesis. 3. Although the mean absolute rate of urea degradation in uraemic patients (3-7 mmol/h) was higher than in normal subjects (2-3 mmol/h) there was no significant positive correlation between urea degradation and plasma urea concentration. 4. In uraemic subjects, there was a significant positive correlation between urea synthetic rate and urea degration rate. 5. The rate of utilization of urea nitrogen for albumin synthesis was low, but was very much higher in uraemic subjects (mean 83-8 mumol/h) compared with normal subjects (mean 6-4 mumol/h), as was the provision by urea of the nitrogen required for albumin synthesis in uraemic subjects (2-37%) compared with normal subjects (0-13%). 6. The efficiency of utilization of urea nitrogen for albumin synthesis was higher in the uraemic patients (1-3%) than the normal subjects (0-2%), and was higher in those patients with chronic renal failure who received a 30 g protein diet than those on 70 g of protein. A significant negative correlation was noted between efficiency of urea nitrogen utilization and the rate of synthesis of albumin. 7. These studies suggest the presence of a mechanism for the conservation of urea nitrogen in chronic renal failure which is unrelated to the extent of urea degradation, and which can only be partly explained by the higher proportion of intraluminal gut nitrogen derived from urea. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1126119/
Abstract: 1. Five patients with hyperlipoproteinaemia type IV and five normolipaemic controls were maintained on diets containing either a fat or a carbohydrate content of approximately 60%. Leg exchanges of triglycerides, free fatty acid (NEFA), glucose and other metabolites were measured in the basal state. The metabolic response to an intravenous glucose load and the turnover of intravenously infused (14C)oleic acid were determined. Individual fatty acids were analysed in plasma NEFA and very-low-density lipoprotein triglyceride. 2. No differences were detected between patients and controls with regard to leg uptake of triglyceride or NEFA on either diet. On shifting from a fat-rich to a carbohydrate-rich diet, the control subjects showed reduced values for arterial NEFA and for NEFA turnover, accompanied by a lowered release of NEFA and glycerol from the leg. In patients, on the other hand, the arterial concentration and turnover of NEFA remained unchanged and the release of glycerol from the leg increased. Glucose administration gave a less-pronounced fall of arterial NEFA on either diet in the patients and the incorporation of (14C)oleic acid into triglycerides after glucose administration was more marked than in the controls. 3. No difference in net uptake of triglyceride by the leg was demonstrable between patients and controls. 4. it is concluded that hyperlipaemic patients show an altered metabolic response to a carbohydrate-rich diet, possibly contributing to the development of a hyperlipaemic state, and that acute glucose loading results in a greater incorporation of circulating NEFA into very-low-density lipoproteins in these patients. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1126127/
Abstract: 1. Methylguanidine administered orally to normal volunteers was almost completely recovered in the urine, indicating that it is absorbed in the gastrointestinal tract and is not converted into other compounds. In normal persons at least, its urinary output therefore corresponds to its metabolic production rate plus the amount ingested. 2. In normal persons, diets based on foods not containing methylguanidine (e.g. vegetarian, protein-free and milk-egg) caused a fall in the urinary output of methylguanidine as compared with the output of the same subjects on a free diet. Conversely, higher amounts of methylguanidine were excreted on a diet rich in broth and in boiled beef, which contain large amounts of methylguanidine formed from the oxidation of creatinine, caused by boiling. 3. Oral administration of creatinine to normal volunteers induced an immediate and marked increase in urinary excretion of methylguanidine, and the ingestion of [methyl-14-C]creatinine by uraemic patients was followed by the urinary excretion of labelled methylguanidine. These findings indicate that creatinine is partly converted into methylguanidine in both normal and uraemic subjects and accounts for the high metabolic production of methylguanidine in patients with renal failure, in whom the body pool of creatinine is high. 4. Creatinine, incubated at 38 degrees C for 24 h in Krebs bicarbonate solution (pH 7-38) through which was bubbled oxygen with 15% carbon dioxide, was partially oxidized to methylguanidine. This raises the possibility that even in vivo such a conversion may occur "non-enzymatically". 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1126102/
Abstract: A three-year old male ingested approximately 100 tablets of Bendectin. He developed tonic-clonic seizures followed by cardiac arrest. Toxicologic analysis yielded high levels of doxylamine, dicyclomine, and pyridoxine in blood, peritoneal fluid, and tissue homogenates. The antihistamine, doxylamine succinate appears to be the toxic constituent. Analytical methods used to document the case are herein described. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1126134/
Abstract: 1. Total body potassium was estimated by 40-K measurement with a high-sensitivity whole body counter in normal individuals over a wide age range and in patients who were obese or were grossly wasted as a result of various conditions which restricted food intake. 2. Potassal males and females, but when individuals of different age groups were matched for height, a significant fall in total body potassium with increasing age was observed only in males. Total body potassium of females was about 75% that of males of similar height when young, the sex difference decreasing with ageing. In the normal population, total body potassium was significantly correlated with height and with weight; regression equations for various relationships are given. 3. Fat-free mass was estimated from total body potassium, values of 65 and 56 mmol of potassium/kg fat-free mass being used for males and females respectively. Body fat estimated by this method correlated well with skinfold measurements over a wide range of body weight but in malnourished individuals having inadequate food intake there was considerable fat-free mass from total body potassium appear unsatisfactory in malnutrition. Considerable differences between expected and observed values of total body potassium were found in muscular individuals and in normal individuals who were thin but whose body weight was relatively constant. 4. The patients with malnutrition were low both in body fat as estimated by skinfold thcikness and in total body potassium estimated on the basis of height. Plasma potassium was, however, normal and potassium supplements did not increase the total body potassium. 5. Total body potassium of obese individuals was not significantly different from that of normal weight individuals on the basis of height. Total body potassium fell on weight reduction with a very low energy diet of 1260 kJ (300 kcal.) daily but changed little with a 3300 kJ (800 KCAY POTASSIUM WAS BEST PREDICTED FROM THE INDIVIDUAL'S HEIGHT. For those whose body weight was less than expected, the use of weight gave the best prediction but the error was considerable when the weight deviation was large. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1126047/
Abstract: Steatosis of the liver is a harmless symptom of disturbed lipid metabolism but not a disease. The cause of the steatosis, and not the fat accumulation by itself, produces cirrhosis. There is no evidence so far in man that cirrhosis may be caused by nutritional deficiencies alone. Even cirrhosis after small bowel bypass procedures seems to be result from metabolic rather than nutritional disturbances. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1126608/
Abstract: A balanced synthetic diet, the so called astronaut-diet was given to nine gynaecological patients with recto-vaginal fistulas or operation for aplasia of the vagina. By the reduction of stool quanitity and the change to an almost sterile stool, wound healing was very much enhanced. This diet is recommended for some operations involving the vagina and rectum. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1126591/
Abstract: This investigation was designed to examine the contribution of glucagon to the regulation of free fatty acid (FFA) metabolism in man. The acute effects of exogenous glucagon upon the concentration of plasma FFA and its metabolites: acetoacetic acid (AcAc), beta hydroxybutyric acid (BOH), and triglyceride (TG) were assessed in five normal male subjects. The threshold of response was determined by administering intravenous glucagon in a graded dose-response fashion, andassessing the magnitude of change in FFA and its metabolites. A prompt rise in FFA concentration occurred after glucagon injection, and was associated with a synchronous elevation in both AcAc and BOH concentration in plasma. The rise in FFA concentration was maximal with the glucagon dosage of 0.5 mug./kg. with no greater FFA response seen athigher hormone dosage. In contrast, the rise in plasma ketones was linearly related to thedosage of glucagon but not to the corresponding rise in FFA concentration. The behavior of plasma triglyceride concentration following glucagon challenge also contrasted with the linear rise in ketone concentration. At the lowest dosage of glucagon, TG concentration rose transiently, while at the highest two dosages the concentration of TG was reduced. The transitional dosage of hormone at which no change in TG concentration was observed was approximately 0.5 mug./kg. Comparing our in vivo data with the conclusions reached from published liver perfusion studies, it can be suggested that in the dosages employed, glucagon acutely elevates plasma FFA concentration and modulates their metabolism by augmenting conversion to AcAc and BOH while tending to reduce conversion to TG in man. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1126635/
Abstract: Two indices of the possibility of malnutrition were constructed from the number of nutrients (up to 10) taken in amounts below recommended levels (index A) or below specified lower levels (index B). Values for these indices were determined from nutritional data for 264 old people living at home. High values for both indices were significantly related to the amount spent on food per week, the taken ing of 7 or fewer hot meals per week, and the presence of physical disability, but not to social class, living alone, or presence of a psychiatric diagnosis. The amount spent on food per week, taking 7 or fewer hot meals per week, and physical disability, are thus possible pointers to malnutrition in the elderly at home and may be useful for screening purposes. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1126451/
Abstract: Artificial blood will become important to the extent that it is safer, more effective, more economical, and more readily available than natural substances. If physicians would accept blood substitutes, their use might help to eliminate prevailing shortages of blood and increasing needs for plasma. The high demand for albumin, one of the safest biologics known, is pushing the requirement for plasma to higher levels every year. The albumin situation illustrates both the value placed on hemotherapeutic agents of proven safety and the problem of mobilizing sufficient blood resources for their production. The solutions to this problem and others addressed by the National Blood Policy will involve both scientific efforts and improvements in the operation and organization of blood service systems. Thus, the search for blood and plasma substitutes must be viewed as just one of a set of management and scientific approaches to meeting the need for safe, effective hemotherapuetic agents. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1126594/
Abstract: During the steady state perfusion of the duodenum, recovery of a duodenal marker (polyethylene glycol 4000) can be used to quantify intraduodenal volumes. We used this technique to measure and time the recovery from the duodenum of a second nonabsorbable marker, phenol red. When liquid test meals containing phenol red were placed in the stomach, the rate of gastric emptying could be quantified from the appearance of the maker in the duodenum. The osmolality of either test meal or duodenal perfusates was then varied so that the osmotic control of gastric emptying could be examined. Gastric emptying was fastest when duodenal contents were isotonic; nonisotonic duodenal contents slowed emptying whether these conditions were achieved by nonisotonic duodenal perfusates or by emptying of a nonisotonic test meal. However, nonisotonic solutions in the stomach and in the jejunum did not slow gastric emptying, so long as duodenal contents were isotonic. Osomoreceptors, which slow gastric emptying, are present in the duodenum but not in the jejunum or stomach. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1126602/
Abstract: Serum free proline and free hydroxyproline were determined in 71 patients with liver disease and in 62 control subjects. The group with liver disease included 60 patients with liver cirrhosis and 11 with chronic active liver disease. Forty-five of the cirrhotic patients were alcoholics, 9 of which were studied during an episode of alcoholic hepatitis. The control group consisted of 24 healthy volunteers, 19 primary malnourished patients, and 19 severely ill patients without liver disease. The values obtained in normal subjects were quite constant; no differences related to sex or age were detected. In patients with malnutrition, and especially in severely ill patients, the proline values were always below the normal limit. Patients with nonalcoholic cirrhosis or chronic active liver disease had serum proline and hydroxyproline values similar to those of normal subjects. However, the patients with alcoholic liver cirrhosis had proline and hydroxyproline values significantly higher than the normal group. Furthermore, in patients with alcoholic hepatitis the serum free proline values were significantly higher than in the other groups. The results suggest that alcohol might have a direct effect on proline metabolism or facilitate its release from the liver cell. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1127075/
Abstract: Previous investigators have suggested that low renin hypertension may be due to an unknown mineralocorticoid. This investigation was designed to simulate the effect of an unknown mineralocorticoid by administration of small amounts of desoxycorticosterone acetate (DOCA) in three normal subjects. The response of 2-h upright plasma renin activity (PRA), plasma aldosterone concentration (PA), and urinary aldosterone excretion (UA), as well as extracellular fluid volume, (ECFV) was determined on a high and low salt diet before and during the administration of DOCA for 13 days. After 9 days of DOCA, ECFV increased approximately 2 liters and PRA decreased to levels found in our patients with LRH. PA and UA decreased appropriately as PRA was suppressed. We would expect an unknown mineralocorticoid to have similar effects on the reninangiotension-aldosterone system. Thus, these results would suggest that in LRH the normal levels of PA and UA are inappropriately elevated in relation to the low PRA. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1127115/
Abstract: The histological changes in 95 jejunal biopsy specimens from children have been analyzed by a new mporphometric technique. The microscope image of the specimen is traced directly onto computer data cards. A simple sketch records accurate quantitative data in a matrix of 840 points, retaining the spatial arrangement of the tissue components. The data are fed via an optical mark data card reader, into a mini-computer. FORTRAN IV programs allow calculation of surface area, villous heights, and component volumes in metric units, and of volume proportions, volume-to-volume ratios, and surface-to-volume ratios. Pictorial and numerical printouts are produced, which are suitable for inclusion in the patient's notes. Jejunal biopsies from 37 controls and 26 untreated coeliac patients were clearly distinguished morphometrically. Sixteen pairs of biopsies from coeliac patients on long-term gluten-free diets before, and 12 weeks after, the reintroduction of dietary gluten significantly reflected the effects of gluten challenge. Comparison of control and abnormal biopsies showed a spatial redistribution of the components, more than a change in their absolute amounts. There was no significant differences in the total epithelial volumes in controls, treated or untreated patients, suggesting that the mucosal lesion in coeliac disease is not a true atrophy. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1142962/
Abstract: Life endangering airway obstructions have many facets and causes. Rhinorrhea is a symptom whose etiology may be overlooked if an immediate crisis of airway obstruction is present. Unless the cause for the obstruction or rhinorrhea is investigated it may go undetected and continue to present further problems for the patient. This is especially true of infants under six months of age who are obligate nasal breathers. The following are three cases representing this problem. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1143166/
Abstract: Therapeutic problems with low-carbohydrate diets in the weight reduction of the obese are summarized presenting results of the literature and results of the own group. The small number of patients and the short periods of treatment do account to the controverse results observed by other authors with low-carbohydrate diets. Also studies performed under ambulant conditions should be interpreted carefully. The therapeutic effect of the low-carbohydrate formula diet tested, satisfied even in comparison with a diet discribed in other studies. Concentrations of plasma triglycerides and cholesterol elevated in part turned to normal during therapy. There were no side effects of the gastro-intestinal tract. Hypocaloric diets with reduction of carbohydrates are discussed to have a good therapeutic effect for the following reasons: High value of satiety and increase of the metabolic rate. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1143690/
Abstract: Following the observation of a high percentage of bacterial resistance to antibiotics, the mechanisms of the establishment and transmission of such resistances on an extra-chromosomal basis (R factors) are examined in detail. After noting that the increased incidence and spread of bacterial strains resistant to chemotherapeutic substances and antibiotics is caused by the widespread use of antibiotics in the zootechnical field, the use of antimicrobic substances for food conservation, the increasing use of broad spectrum antibiotics and the rapid selection of resistant Gram-negative strains in hospitals, the clinical and epidemiological effects of antibiotic resistance in the Enterobacteriaceae are considered. The situation in Italy is looked at in particular where multiresistance to antibiotics promoted by R factors, already widespread in northern Italy, is being presently extended to southern Italy. It is hoped that physicians will realise the immediate and future epidemiological effects of the indiscriminate employment of broad spectrum antibiotics as this inevitably leads to the establishment of multiple resistance factors in Gram-negative bacterial populations. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1144258/
Abstract: An investigation was made into the incidence of type IIa hyperlipidaemia in two generations of a family in which there was a tendency to develop premature ischaemic heart disease. Forty-three per cent of those tested showed a lipoprotein abnormality characteristic type IIa hyperlipidaemia. Treatment of this condition, by dietary and drug therapy, was uniformaly successful. The importance of early detection of this condition by the general practitioner is emphasized, in view of the high incidence of premature ischaemic heart disease in such patients. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1144248/
Abstract: We believe that the use of sex-maturity ratings as a routine part of physical examinations for adolescents is of value to all physicians caring for adolescents. The information is useful not only in following the growth of an individual patient but in detecting early abnormal patterns of adolescent development and also as a means of comparison with other adolescents. Because anaemia or a low haemoglobin-haematocrit value is a major concern during growth, we believe norms related to the sex, race, and maturity rating of an adolescent patient are of significant value. Caloric intake as well as dietary iron intake and percentage of transferrin saturation tend to increase with increasing maturity ratings and provide an indication for further evaluation if they are below the mean and standard deviation for the rating of maturity. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1143952/
Abstract: The recently developed technique of gas chromatography-mass spectrometry supported by computer has considerably improved the analysis of physiologic fluids. This study attempted to demonstrate the value of this system in the investigation of metabolite patterns in urine in two metabolic problems of prematurity, transient tyrosinemia and late metabolic acidosis. Serial 24-hr urine specimens were analyzed in 9 infants. Transient tyrosinemia, characterized by 5-10-fold increases over basal excretion of tyrosine, p-hydroxyphenyllactate, and p-hydroxyphenylpyruvate in urine, was noted in five of the infants. Several infants had fluctuating levels of tyrosine metabolites in urine although dietary protein intake remained constant at 3-4 g/kg/24 hr and ascorbic acid at 50 mg/24 hr. Late metabolic acidosis was seen in four infants, but bore no relation to transient tyrosinemia. The ratio of net acid to urea excretion in urine increased with increasing base deficit, implying a nonprotein origin of the metabolic acid. No unique metabolic patterns were characteristic of late metabolic acidosis. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1144292/
Abstract: An elemental diet is a food which provides the basic needs in calories, proteins, vitamins and minerals with two advantages: it is predigested and leaves minimal or no residue to provide bulk. The care of 20 patients, with an elemental diet, presenting 20 external fistulas (75 per cent with low output and 25 per cent with high output) succeeded to obtain a spontaneous healing in 75 per cent of the cases, and an improvement of the general conditions of 15 per cent of the patients who were operated on because of fistula persistency. The death rate was 10 per cent. We think that the elemental diet is a useful tool in the treatment of external fistulas of patients who have preserved their bowel movements and an output smaller than 500 ml. in 24 hrs. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1143919/
Abstract: Many surgical methods are available for slowing down the passage of food through the bowel to achieve better absorption in patients with extensive resections of the small intestine. Reversal of an intestinal segment seems to be the best procedure and has resulted in substantial experimental and clinical experiences. The author reviews the present state of knowledge with respect to surgical improvement of absorption. He also reports on his own experimental studies in which reversed segments of small intestine produced active slowing of passage with good mixture of chyme. For a prolonged period of time the short segments transport the chyme mixture upwards into the oral section of the bowel under low frequency, increased pressure and uniform muscle hypertrophy. To date 37 clinical cases have been published. The follow-up shows that the patients gained weight, their general condition improved and the time of passage increased. However, only five pediatric cases are reported in the world literature: of which 3 patients had a small intestine segment and two children a colon segment to achieve antiperistalsis. With one exception all children died in the postoperative phase. Death was not due to the surgical intervention. The use of an antiperistaltic segment is only indicated when the presently available means of parenteral feeding have failed or are inadequate. Segment reversal should never be used as primary treatment; segment length should not exceed 5 to 10 cm. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1151897/
Abstract: This brief note deals with the development of alternative perspectives on the provocative, and as yet unexplained result of an earlier study in which groups of people born under different astrological zodiac signs were found to differ markedly in their scores on the California Psychological Inventory (CPI) scale described as a measure of "Femininity." Attention is focused on (a) discrepancies between the observed pattern of high and low scores on the CPI Femininity scale, and classification of sun signs as "masculine" or "feminine" by astrologers; (b) the trend in the data indicating that the six sun sign categories for which the highest scores were obtained on the Femininity scale correspond to birthdates running continuously from July 24 to January 20, while the six sun sign categories for which the lowest scores were obtained on that scale correspond to birthdates running continuously from January 21 to July 23; and (c) speculative consideration of the kinds of climatic, dietary, and/or cyclical geomagnetic events that might affect reproduction and prenatal and/or neonatal development in such a way as to influence adult personality. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1151935/
Abstract: Early recognition of intrauterine growth retardation, and recognition of these compromised infants at birth, is essential, to correct, if possible, any adverse intrauterine influence; then, to provide proper nursery care, screening for abnormalities, and proper post-natal nutrition. Improved management of both the in-utero and the ex-utero environment may offer these neonates a more favorable prognosis for their physical, neurological, and intellectual development. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1152155/
Abstract: A review of 34 cases of bilateral ureteral obstruction secondary to carcinoma of the prostate indicates that aggressive treatment in selected cases can increase survival without an associated increase in morbidity. In our series various modalities of treatment were used in 25 patients and the remaining 9 patients received no treatment. Bilateral ureteral obstruction in cases of carcinoma of the prostate should not uniformly imply a terminal event or hopeless prognosis. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1151934/
Abstract: We have just begun our study of fetal growth retardation. Prenatal influences upon fetal growth are poorly understood and little studied. One may list multiple etiologies, catalogue numerous physiologic processes, and still not know in any given child what went wrong. The questions far exceed our preliminary answers. How does maternal undernutrition significantly effect the fetal "parasite?" Is the syndrome of intrauterine growth retardation a manifestation of a host versus graft phenomenon, with "runting" in the offspring? Are deficits in cell number and size unalterable? Can these deficits be overcome with good postnatal care? How can we better detect the fetus who is undergoing deprivation in utero? What altered biochemical processes exist? Can we reverse such abnormal influences in utero and prevent their consequences to the fetus? Certainly there are numerous additional areas for investigation and thought. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1152152/
Abstract: Thirty patients underwent jejunal urinary diversion: 27 bilateral cutaneous ureterojejunostomies, 2 cutaneous pyeloureterojejunostomies and 1 bilateral pyelocutaneous jejunostomy. In the majority of the cases this high diversion was indicated for malignant disease with preoperative and postoperative irradiation of the pelvis. Postoperative morbidity in these cases is not different from thatin cases of ileal conduit operation, except for a high incidence of reversible hypochloremic acidosis with hyponatremia, hyperkalemia and uremia. This electrolytic syndrome is the consequence of a continuous exchange of ions between the jejunal content and the extracellular fluid with resultant loss of sodium chloride and absorption of potassium and urea. An important link in the pathophysiology of the jejunal syndrome is the hypersecretion of renin-aldosterone, which aggravates the disturbance. Limited renal function (glomerular filtration rate less than 50 cc per minute), long loop and inadequate salt intake are among contributing factors. The syndrome is correctable by administration of salt. Some patients must be placed on salt supplement indefinitely. The jejunum is not recommended for urinary diversion in patients with limited renal function, those on low salt diet or those in whom a long intestinal loop would be required for diversion. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1152157/
Abstract: To evaluate the effect on liver function of therapy with massive doses of synthetic female sex hormones a study was performed on the alterations in levels of serum zinc turbidity test, bilirubin, alkaline phosphatase, glutamic oxaloacetic transaminase and glutamic pyruvic transaminase following antiandrogenic treatment with castration and synthetic female sex hormones in patients with prostatic carcinoma. Results included: 1) Irrespective or response to treatment the zinc turbidity test level tended to increase. 2) After 1 week of treatment some increase was observed in the alkaline phosphatase level and was more pronounced in poor response cases than in the fair ones. However, in general, no definite fluctuation was observed. 3) The bilirubin level tended to decrease in general but in poor response cases an early increase was observed. 4) The glutamic oxaloacetic transaminase level was significantly increased in the early phase and more pronounced in poor response cases than in the fair ones. 5) An increased glutamic pyruvic transaminase level was observed after 2 weeks of treatment but was not significant to the pre-treatment level and later returned to the neighborhood of the pre-treatment level. After 1 week of female sex hormone therapy many indices studied showed abnormality. However, except for a steady increase in the zinc turbidity test level no serious damage on liver functions evaluated was encountered during a year of massive dose therapy with female sex hormones. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1152158/
Abstract: We herein report on the results of treatment of 13 men with stage D prostatic carcinoma with a non-steroidal compound, SCH-13521 (flutamide). The dosage of the drug was 750 mg. in 3 divided doses daily and treatment extended for 2 to 20 months. Two patients failed to respond in any fashion, 7 had objective evidence of response and the others had varying degrees of subjective response. Plasma testosterone was never suppressed and sexual potency was not altered by the drug. Gynecomastia occurred in several patients, 1 patient had intractable vomiting and 2 had thromboembolic disease. In tissue biopsies after therapy, cytotoxic changes in some acinar cells were noted but healthy-appearing neoplastic cells were always abundant. These observations suggest the pre-treatment existence of autonomous cells that no conventional hormonal manipulation will succeed in destorying. However, the palliation that flutamide seems to afford makes it important to conduct an appropriately designed study that will compare it in a suitable fashion to the effectiveness of diethylstilbestrol. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1152191/
Abstract: CI, TPRI, PV, ECFV, Nae, PRA and a pressor response to NA and AT was measured before and after 1) sodium restriction and 2) spontaneous blood pressure fall (spontaneous fall) in the patients with essential hypertension and the following results were obtained. 1) CI did not change during sodium restriction and increased after spontaneous fall. TPRI was reduced and the degree of this reduction was positively correlated with that of blood pressure reduction under these two conditions. 2) Sodium restriction caused the decrease of PV, ECFV and Nae and the increase of PRA. The degree of the reduction of PV and Nae was positively correlated with that of blood pressure fall. After spontaneous fall, PV, ECFV and NAe was increased and PRA did not change significantly. 3) A pressor response to NA and AT was depressed after one week of sodium restriction, and after 4 weeks the former returned to the basal response, while the latter was still reduced. NA response was correlated positively with basal Nae, ECFV and interstitielle fluid volume and negatively with basal PRA. AT response was negatively correlated with PRA before and during sodium restriction. No correlation was observed, however, between the degree of reduction of blood pressure and that of the change in pressor response to NA or AT. After spontaneous fall, the response to NA was not reduced but increased. These results suggested that, although the fall in blood pressure under these experimental conditions was mediated by the reduction of TPRI, the changes in pressor response to NA and AT did not affect primarily the reduction of blood pressure. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1152342/
Abstract: In four women with cyclical oedema related to the menstrual cycle, weight, leg volume, urinary excretion of sodium, aldosterone and oestrogens, plasma concentrations of progesterone, angiotensin II and plasma renin activity were measured at intervals during 4 weeks while they were taking a fixed sodium diet. In another patient, regular biphasic changes in weight and basal body temperature, disappearing after ovariectomy, were demonstrated. Changes in weight (varying between 3.5 and 5.5 kg) with corresponding changes in sodium balance were observed. In three patients, the maximum weight occurred in the second half, and in the other patient in the first half of the menstrual cycle. Plasms renin activity was in the normal range in all patients. It tended to rise when weight fell and vice versa. Aldosterone excretion behaved similarly and seems to be related to plasma progesterone in three patients. Orthostatic increase in leg volume did not significantly correlate with change in early morning weight. Thus, renin, aldosterone and orthostatic pooling of plasma fluid did not seem to be of primary importance in the pathogenesis of oedema in these patients. Oestrogen excretion in the luteal phase of the cycle was abnormally low in two patients; both had premenstrual oedema. In none of the patients could sodium retention be explained by excessive oestrogen and/or diminished progesterone production. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1152349/
Abstract: Plasma aldosterone, plasma renin activity, sodium and potassium in the plasma and the urine were determinated under acute stimulation with saline-depletion (furosemide) and under acute suppression with saline infusion in 40 patients with primary hypertension stage I, 19 patients with primary hypertension stages II and III, and 11 patients with renal hypertension (chronic glomerulonephritis and chronic pyelonephritis). The majority of the patients with primary hypertension stage I showed a good stimulation of the plasma aldosterone and the plasma renin activity under acute salt depletion. Three out of the 40 patients with primary hypertension stage I, and 13 of the 19 patients with primary hypertension stages II and III did not show any stimulation of the renin secretion ("low renin hypertension"). In all these patients the plasma aldosterone stimulation remained intact. With infusion of saline all the groups showed suppression of the plasma aldosterone and the plasma renin activity. A good stimulation of the plasma renin activity, demonstrates that in our experiments the renin-angiotensin system cannot be responsible for the increase in aldosterone secretion under salt depletion. Most likely the increase of the plasma aldosterone, in spite of the fixed renin activity, is stimulated by the sodium depletion due to diuretics. In all patients with primary hypertension we did not find an inadequate reaction of the aldosterone secretion under saline infusion. The patients with renal hypertension showed a minimal stimulation and suppression of the plasma renin activity. The plasma aldosterone secretion increased only slightly under sodium depletion and the decrease under saline infusion was statistically not significant. Thus we conclude that these patients show an inadequate reaction of the plasma aldosterone and renin secretion under salt infusion and depletion. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1152401/
Abstract: The use of pure protein mono- and polymers for human nutrition was studied in a 45-day experiment in which 12 test subjects took part. The first group of 6 persons were given casein (14.8 g nitrogen per day) and the second group--an equivalent mixture made of crystalline L-amino acids. The first group showed no abnormalities in the physiological and biochemical functions. The second group exhibited marked changes in the body: weight losses, negative nitrogen balance, increase of the ammonia concentration in the urine and exhaled air. It appears that amino acid mixtures can be included into the human nutrition only after extensive studies. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1152347/
Abstract: The effect of selective proximal vagotomy (SpV) with (12 cases) and without (5 cases) pyloroplasty upon basal and food stimulated serum immunoreactive gastrin (IRG) was studied in duodenal ulcer patients. Following SpV, fasting serum IRG increased in all subjects; the increase was more pronounced in subjects whose postoperative insulin tests were negative. Postoperatively, the mean integrated IRG output over 2 hrs in response to a meal was significantly higher than the preoperative mean value in the 17 patients. Pyloroplasty had no effect upon the IRG response following a test meal. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1152552/
Abstract: To estimate the effect of long-term administration of L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (L-Dopa) on methylation of compounds not formed from it, the urinary excretion of histamine and its methylated metabolites was studied in rats and guinea pigs fed L-Dopa in their diets and in patients with Parkinson's disease being treated with L-Dopa. In the guinea pigs, but not in the rats, L-Dopa administration decreases excretion of histamine and of its methylated metabolites, methylhistamine and 1-methylimidazole-4-acetic acid. Because excretion of 1-methylimidazole-5-acetic acid, which comes from the diet and is not a metabolite of histamine, was unaffected by the L-Dopa treatment, the decreases were due to a specific effect of L-Dopa on histamine metabolism. When compared to normal control subjects, patients with Parkinson's disease excreted less histamine and methylhistamine, both before and during treatment with L-Dopa. Administration of the peripheral aromatic L-amino acid decarboxylase inhibitor, L-alpha-methyldopa hydrazine (MK 486), decreased urinary excretion of histamine markedly. Neither L-Dopa nor MK 486 appeared to influence excretion of the imidazoleacetic acids in the patients. The results suggest that L-Dopa may decrease histamine formation or release in some species but that it does not influence histamine methylation. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1152703/
Abstract: Diet and atherosclerosis are closely linked, both aetiologically and therapeutically. The aetiological association can be demonstrated most satisfactorily in animal experiments. In human beings the evidence must necessarily be more indirect and is largely based on dietary trials and epidemiological surveys linking the intake of cholesterol and saturated fat with morbidity and mortality from coronary disease. A modifying influence which has gained increasing recognition over recent years is the individual response to a given diet. This variability appears to be largely genetically determined, certainly in the defined primary hyperlipidaemic states, and possibly within the normal ranges of serum cholesterol levels. A change in food habits should be fully utilized therapeutically in any form of hyperlipidaemia, whether as a primary preventive measure before clinical diseases of atherosclerotic origin become manifest or in secondary prevention to delay further morbidity and mortality. With good dietary adherence, lipid levels may return to normal and there may be additional favourable effects on intravascular thrombosis. Many problems remain to be solved on the public health issue of advising changes in the national diet. A number of countries in which an atherogenic diet is habitually eaten have decided in favour of such a recommendation. Public education, identification of persons at risk and provision of readily available skilled medical and dietary counselling should constitute a national health project with rewarding long-term results. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1165833/
Abstract: The author describes 6 cases in which an unquestionable temporal correlation was observed between the appearance of epileptic seizures and the action of certain allergens. Allergy is considered only rarely as a cause of epileptic seizures. The pathological mechanisms of such seizures seems to be a complex one. In some cases there is probably a direct influence of allergens or biochemical agents released by them on the central nervous system. Data from the literature and own observations show that not infrequently partial complex seisures appear in connection with allergy, besides generalized attacks. The former are frequently a response to the action of chemical and pharmaceutical allergens. Sometimes, anticonvulsants are the agents releasing epileptic seizures. The diagnosis of allergic epilepsy is facilitated by coexistence of local or systemic signs of allergy. The prognosis depends on early recognition of the cause of attacks and appropriate therapeutic management. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1165620/
Abstract: In the first part we reviewed both the molecular basis of granulocyte function and the inborn defects. The present chapter summarizes our knowledge of the secondary defects of chemotaxis, opsonisation, phagocytosis and intracellular microbicidal activity. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1165855/
Abstract: Human intestinal specificity toward sterols was studied by a balance method in 10 hyperlipoproteinemic patients fed plant sterol mixture with chromium sesquioxide as fecal flow marker. The mean fecal recovery of campesterol (C28) was 20% less than that of beta-sitosterol (C29). This difference persisted when corrected for fecal flow (by marker recovery), indicating differences in their intestinal uptake (C28 greater than C29). The ratio of fecal cholesterol to its 5beta-reduction products was lower than that of beta-sitosterol in all patients; in vitro, 5beta-reduction of both sterols was similar. The recovery of sterols from patients was unrelated to their 5beta-reduction in the intestine. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1165955/
Abstract: The high prevalence of low-birthweight (less than or equal to 2,500 gm) babies in many poor communities is a major public health problem. Studies in humans in situations of acute starvation suggest an effect of maternal nutrition on birthweight, but less clear results appear under situations of moderate maternal malnutrition. We studied the effects of food supplementation during pregnancy on birthweight in four rural villages of Guatemala, in which two types of supplements were distributed: protein-caloric and caloric. The caloric supplementation increased the total caloric intake during pregnancy. In both supplements, the amount of calories supplemented during pregnancy showed a consistent association with birthweight. In the combined sample the proportion of low-birthweight babies in the high-supplement group (G greater than or equal to 20,000 supplemented calories during pregnancy) was 9% compared with 19% in the low-supplement group (less than 20,000 supplemented calories during pregnancy). The relationship between caloric supplementation and birthweight (29 gm of birthweight per 10,000 supplemented calories) was basically unchanged after controlling for the maternal home diet, height, head circumference, parity, gestational age, duration of disease during pregnancy, socioeconomic status, and different rates of missing data. Moreover, a similar association was found in consecutive pregnancies of the same mother. We concluded that caloric supplementation during pregnancy produced the observed increase in birthweight. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1166342/
Abstract: Toxoplasma gondii antibody titers as determined by either the indirect hemagglutination test or the methylene blue dye test were determined for a group of aborigines and for Chinese as well as for swine, cats, rats, dogs and one bovine, all resident on the island of Taiwan. None of the 194 aborigines and only 3 (1.97%) of the 152 Chinese were found to be positive. Of 433 swine tested 132 (30.5%) were positive. Thirteen (27.7%) of 47 domestic pet cats were positive while none of 11 feral cats were positive. None of the 29 rats, 3 dogs or the one bovine were positive. Possible reasons for the lack of infection in Chinese is discussed. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1166355/
Abstract: Twenty-four-hour urine samples and whole deciduous teeth from fluoridated (0.71 ppm) and non-fluoridated (0.14 ppm) areas together with some selected local food items were analysed for their fluoride content. The mean values for urinary fluoride were 0.90 ppm or 0.77 mg per day for the fluoridated area and 0.50 ppm or 0.52 mg per day for the non-fluoridated area. Assuming that half of all the fluoride ingested is excreted in the urine, this study suggests that the average daily fluoride intakes by adults in the fluoridated and non-fluoridated areas were about 1.5 mg and 1 mg respectively. The mean fluoride content of non-carious deciduous teeth from the fluoridated area was 416.89 ppm compared to 178.45 ppm in the low fluoride area. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1166365/
Abstract: The 'irritable bowel syndrome' is a disorder of civilisation, in which a low-residue fibre-deficient diet is probably the major aetiological factor. This is illustrated by the first 2 Black patients presenting with this syndrome. They represent a population which has only recently changed from a rural to an urban way of life. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1166364/
Abstract: Formerly reported by analysts as being present as "traces", the minute amounts of many elements present in plant and animal materials can now be detected and estimated with a remarkable degree of sensitivity and accuracy. Some of this heterogenous group of metals and nonmetals have been shown to be essential for life or for the well-being of animals, including man; others possess toxic properties, while yet others are probably there as contaminants. Although present in such extremely small quantities, those known to be essential play highly individualistic as well as astonishingly varied roles in our metabolic processes; they must, therefore, take their place with the other nutrients needed in our diet. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1166344/
Abstract: A blood survey employing membrane filter concentration (MFC) and examination of stained 20 c.mm thick blood films as diagnostic methods was carried out in Banjar Regency of South Borneo, an area of endemic B. malayi filariasis. In untreated populations the mf rate, as revealed by MFC, ranged from 23.2% for the 5-9 year old group to 43.7% for the greater than 50 year old group. For all age groups approximately one half of the microfilaraemias were of a low grade nature, diagnosed by MFC only. In a population that had been subjected to mass DEC administration 1 1/2 years prior to this survey, the MFC-diagnosed rate was 15%. Approximately two thirds of these infections were of very low density, the average density being 2.2 mf/ml. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1179233/
Abstract: The problem of obesity is not well dealt with in the ordinary diabetes clinic. We therefore started a clinic for obese diabetics, the principles of which are mentioned. We reviewed the results of its ifrst year's activity in relation to 80 patients who attended for at least 3 months, and found: (i) a very frequent family history of diabetes in first-degree relatives (59% among Coloured patients); (ii) very commonly, an abnormal ECG, suggestive of ischaemic heart disease (about 60%); (iii) very frequent serum lipid abnormalities, yet no correlation between high lipid levels and an abnormal ECT; (iv) a mean loss of 5,9 kg over 8,6 months for the 80 patients (mean loss of 10,4 kg by the 8 men); (v) patients who had been fat in childhood actually lost more weight than did those who became overweight only in adult life; and (vi) oral hypoglycaemic drugs and even insulin could frequently be discontinued. We believe the clinic is worthwhile. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1179484/
Abstract: The diets of women, studied at regular intervals in the first year of lactation, showed that food taboos adversely affected the daily intake of energy, protein and some nutrients in the first month. Despite the poor intakes, the women breastfed their babies successfully and the weight gained by the babies in the early months was satisfactory. Breast feeding continued until the next pregnancy. Most women believed lactation prevented conception. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1179211/
Abstract: Prolonged partial restriction of calorie intake in young rats results in reduced growth, involution of lymphoid organs, and lymphopenia. After immunization with sheep red blood cells, the number of antibody-forming cells in the spleen and serum hemolysin titers are markedly reduced. The effect is more pronounced on the primary response and on immunoglobulin G antibody-forming cells. Significant impairment of antibody formation is detectable in the first (F1) and second (F2) generation offspring of starved Fo mothers. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1179920/
Abstract: The fatty acid pattern of blood serum lipids was examined by gas liquid-chromatography in 30 cases with bilharzial hepatic fibrosis, 11 cases with chronic active hepatitis accompanied by jaundice, and 28 healthy individuals as a comparison group of the same socioeconomic class of patients. In addition, the fatty acid patterns of the three major serum lipid classes, namely: cholesterol ester, phospholipids and triglycerides, were also investigated in seven cases of each group by gas liquid chromatography. The most remarkable differences were: a depression of the essential fatty acid level (linoleic and arachidonic) in both groups of patients together with a concomitant elevation of oleic acid in the bilharzial group and an elevation of oleic, palmitic, palmitoleic acids in the chronic active hepatitis group. The depression of linoleic and arachidonic acids was explained by the low fat diet intake, malnutrition, and the malabsorption factors which were frequent in all the patients studied. The elevation of monoethenoid acids was attributed to the decrease in the ability of the liver to desaturate the endogenous saturated and monounsaturated acids to polyunsaturated ones. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1180039/
Abstract: A total of 12 undecalcified and decalcified otosclerotic stapes containing active spongiotic lesions were examined using an electron microscope. Evidence of osteolytic osteolysis was seen in all specimens, but osteoclasts were observed in only four. The advancing front in the spongiotic lesion was 'moth-eaten' due to the demineralization of canaliculi and lacunae. The demineralizing process appeared to be initiated by degranulation of lysosomes by the degenerating osteocytes. As bone resorption continued, poorly mineralized new bone was laid down by osteoblasts which showed mitochondrial swelling. The possible implication of this mitochondrial swelling is discussed in relation to the pathology of the otosclerosis. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1180202/
Abstract: There is a wide variety of criteria in regard to the etiology of atopic dermatitis of neurodermitis. The allergic factor may play a very important role in its etiology. There is neither a general agreement on the importance of food allergy in this regard. Broadly considered, these patients may evoke intense positive reactions to intradermal tests to food and inhalative allergens, nevertheless it will be possible to establish that the lesions appear or disappear after the exposure of suppression of the antigens which evoked the positive reaction. On this basis, many dermatologists deny the allergic etiology in atopic dermatitis, even though in most instances no food skin tests are performed. In this study, 110 patients, both children and adults of both sexes, suffering from atopic dermatitis are investigated. The onset in most of the cases is before the age of six months, following the ages between 1-10 years; the groups between 6 months and one year, and 10-20 years followed a descending order per decade until 70 years. 60.9% of the cases showed food allergy to one or more food items. In 39% of the cases, no food allergy was found. The food-stuffs more commonly involved were: milk (37.7%), egg (26.3%) and fish (20.9%), followed by coca, wheat flour, seafood, fruits, vegetables and meat. A remission of the reaction followed the suppression of the allergen. Intestinal parasitosis is evaluated in relation to atopic dermatitis. 30.9% of the 110 cases were affected with intestinal parasitosis, being the most common the flagelates (lamblias), protozoa (amoeba) and nematodes (ascaris, tricocephalus and oxijrus). Finally, a concurrence is found between atopic dermatitis and other allergic diseases in 81 cases (73.6%), being bronchial asthma and asthmatic bronchitis the most frequent, and allergic rhinitis, urticaria and Quincke's edema less frequent. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1180248/
Abstract: Effect of changing energy levels of the diet at constant protein intakes on nitrogen balances in five young men were studied at two levels of protein--40 and 60 g. Nitrogen balance increased with increase in energy intake at both levels of protein. This was brought about primarily by a reduction in urinary nitrogen excretion. Energy levels at which nitrogen equilibrium was obtained were different for the two levels of protein intake. At 40 g protein intake the energy intake required for zero nitrogen balance was 2,249 kcal, while it was 2,066 kcal when the diet provided 60 g protein. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1180245/
Abstract: The magnesium status of 185 moderate income American mothers was assessed in the immediate postpartum period by the intravenous magnesium load test. Pre- and postload collections of urine were each made for approximately 24 hours because pilot studies revealed significant diurnal variation in magnesium excretion. The magnesium load provided 0.4 to 0.5 mEq of magnesium/kg of estimated lean body weight. The mean retention was 51% +/- 2.2 (SEM). Patients retaining more or less than an arbitrary limit of 40% of the magnesium load were compared. No differences in mean age, weight, or parity were found between the groups. The high retention group reported a diet lower in magnesium and had a significantly lower plasma magnesium value. Magnesium retention of over 90% of the load was found in biologically immature multiparas (less than 17 years) and in young mothers of twins. Among the multiparous patients, those with the longest interval since the previous pregnancy had the lowest retention values. Most of the primiparous patients had met the magnesium requirements of a singleton pregnancy and rejected most of the load, but 6 primiparous women whose active labor exceeded 18 hours had a retention of 77.91% of the load. This was significantly higher than the 45.0 +/- 3.52 (SEM) % retention in 70 primiparous mothers with shorter duration of active labor (P less than 0.005). No other symptoms or complications of pregnancy could be correlated with the magnesium load values. Further definition of the magnesium load test is indicated. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1180247/
Abstract: The influence of diet on aryl acid metabolism was determined in normal and azotemic subjects. Aryl acid content of serum and urine was estimated by fluorometry in relation to hippuric acid as a standard (FI-Hipp). Secretory activity, a reflection of the biological potency of aromatic acids in serum and urine, was determined by bioassay. The urinary excretion of FI-Hipp and secretory activity of five normal persons on an ad lib diet was 0.78 and 2.25 mM/day, respectively; similar values were observed in two subjects with chronic renal insufficiency. Subjects were fed prunes and cranberries, since these foods contain abundant quantities of hippurate precursors. Prunes 1.5 g/kg body weight, caused the urinary excretion of both FI-Hipp and secretory activity to increase about tenfold in normal and azotemic subjects. Prune feeding caused the serum levels of FI-Hipp and secretory activity to increase about threefold. Cranberries increased the renal excretion of FI-Hipp and secretory activity as did the ingestion of a beverage containing benzoate as a preservative. On the basis of these studies it is clear that diet is an important determinant of the load of aryl acids for urinary excretion; in patients with renal insufficiency the ingestion of foods containing precursors may cause serum level of biologically active aryl acids to increase strikingly. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1180246/
Abstract: Water-soluble vitamins have a molecular size small enough to pass through the membrane of an artificial kidney. This fact has led to the suggestion that these vitamins be substituted in patients undergoing long-term hemodialysis. In sharp contrast to this general belief, our study has shown that the plasma thiamin levels in patients on long-term hemodialysis were not different from those found in normal subjects. It also remained unchanged before and after the dialysis, althoug thiamin was obviously removed in in vitro dialysis. Accordingly, dietary thiamin appears to be sufficient, making further supplementation unnecessary. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1180250/
Abstract: As part of a study of the effects of lysine supplementation of wheat products in Southern Tunisia one qualitative and four quantitative surveys of food consumption were carried out. The average diet provided 7.1 MJ (1,670 kcal), 42 g of protein and 1,280 mg of lysine per person per day. The overall dietary protein thus supplied only 31 mg of lysine/g of protein, or about 56% of the level recommended by the FAO/WHO Expert Committee on Protein Requirements. Addition of lysine to all wheat products to a final effective concentration of 0.2% would raise the dietary lysine level to 45 mg/g protein, or 82% of the FAO/WHO recommended level, at which time threonine would become limiting. Irrespective of whether the FAO/WHO pattern of 1973, breast milk, cow's milk, whole egg or a modification of the FAO pattern of 1957 was used to assess the quality of the protein in the diet, lysine was the first, and threonine the second limiting amino acid (except in comparison with breast milk, which showed tryptophan as the second limiting amino acid). In no case did there appear to be any problem with the sulfur-containing amino acids. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1180336/
Abstract: The social development, emotional adaptation, and functioning of mothers of failure-to-thrive children, and of a group of matched controls were studied. Results show that maternal behavior of the mothers of the failure-to-thrive groups, while showing no overt psychopathology, did differ substantially from that of the control group. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1180253/
Abstract: A descriptive epidemiologic and anthropologic study was designed to determine by field observation and interview the extent of Basque involvement in the sheep industry of California, the nature of the sheep and dog husbandry practices of California Basques as they might influence Echinococus granulosus transmission, and the "folk knowledge" of hydatid disease possessed by California Basques, particularly as it might indicate the early presence of this infection in California and provide evidence for or against possible intensification or spread of transmission in the recent past. Basques were found to dominate the sheep industry of California's Central Valley from Sacramento south, but to be virtually absent from other sheep-raising areas of the state. In contrast to most other California sheep ranchers, Basques practice a transhumant form of husbandry in which bands of sheep are moved from location to location under the control of contract Basque shepherds from Spain and France and a number of sheep dogs. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1180577/
Abstract: Intravenous fat emulsions have been advocated as acceptable alternatives to hyperosmolar glucose solutions in parenteral nutrition. The ability of a fat emulsion (soy bean oil suspended in glycerol) to produce nitrogen sparing in the absence of nitrogen intake was examined in normal man. The protein conservation obtained by the fat emulsion can be duplicated by the infusion of glycerol alone in the same amount as that available from the fat emulsion. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1180586/
Abstract: We have developed a sensitive, specific and reproducible radioimmunoassay for cholecystokinin (CCK) with which basal levels of CCK of between 400-800 pg/ml have been measured in normal man, in patients with diabetes and with duodenal ulcer disease, and in normal dogs. After a meal, circulating levels of CCK rose to 1000-1200 pg/ml in human subjects. Release of CCK was more rapid in diabetic and duodenal ulcer patients than in normal subjects, but elevated postprandial levels persisted much longer in normal subjects. Patients with the Zollinger-Ellison syndrome had elevated values of cholecystokinin which rose after a meal. Lack of correlation between elevated basal levels of gastrin and CCK in patients with the Zollinger-Ellison syndrome suggest that the hypercholecystokininemia may be absolute. The disappearance half-time of exogenous CCK was about 21/2 minutes in normal subjects as well as in diabetic and duodenal ulcer patients. Studies in dogs demonstrated no uptake of basal levels of cholecystokinin by the kidney; on infusion of exogenous CCK-33, the kidney extracted 43% of the total CCK presented and 56% of the integrated CCK. We conclude that: 1) circulating basal and postprandial levels of CCK may be measured in a reproducible fashion; 2) postprandial release of CCK is more rapid in diabetic and duodenal ulcer patients than in normal man; 3) the disappearance half-time of exogenous CCK in man and dogs is about 21/2 minutes; 4) the kidney is a major site for uptake of CCK. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1180580/
Abstract: Nutritional status was investigated in 10 patients who had previously undergone total gastrectomy without evidence of malignancy. The ability of these patients to ingest and absorb adequate amounts of nutrients was examined. Metabolic balance studies were also performed to discover how effectively these patients could accumulate and use the absorbed nutrients. In the controlled hospital situation, the amount of food ingested was greater than the amount required for maintenance of Ideal Body Weight. Although mild malabsorption of fat and nitrogen was documented, weight gain and positive nitrogen balance occurred. In direct contrast, food intake significantly decreased when the patients returned to their home environment. While severe malabsorption may contribute to malnutrition in the individual patient, the most common mechanism responsible for postoperative malnutrition was inadequate intake. In the occasional patient with severe malabsorption, the universal demonstration of jejunal anaerobic bacterial overgrowth offers important therapeutic implications. The relative importance of pancreatico-biliary insufficiency in promoting malabsorption remains to be determined. Construction of a Hunt-Lawrence jejunal pouch was not found to favorably affect caloric intake, weight gain, degree of malabsorption, or dumping symptoms. Although some degree of malnutrition does result from total gastric resection, in most cases it is mild and potentially correctable. Avoidance of indicated total gastrectomy due to fears of progressive postoperative malnutrition is unwarranted. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1198243/
Abstract: Possible interrelationships between maternal drug ingestion and infections during the first trimester and the occurrence of congenital malformations have been studied. Of 1 142 pregnancies, 3,4% ended in malformations clinically detected within 1 week of birth. For the group as a whole there was no evidence of an increased risk ratio in those mothers who ingested medicines. Possible reasons for this are discussed. Similar evaluations were carried out for pregnancies with threatened or actual miscarriages, stillbirths, and deaths occurring between birth and 1 week thereafter. The data from this limited study suggest that drugs are too often incorrectly incriminated when malformations occur. There are many other factors which can create a hostile environment for the fetus. The recommendation however, that women should avoid medicines in the first trimester, unless there are compelling reasons to the contrary, must remain. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1198109/
Abstract: A population of Indian laborers who show high preferences for sour and bitter tastes has been studied. Their judgments of taste intensity and pleasantness of sweet and salty stimuli are in accord with European population estimates, which suggests that dietary history may alter preferences for simple taste stimuli without affecting the gustatory system. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1198294/
Abstract: The microflora of the stomach is derived from both the ingestion of food and saliva and the reflux of proximal intestinal contents through the pylorus. Normally, this microflora is inhibited by gastric acid and normal gastric motility. In disease states, however, such as bleeding or obstructing duodenal ulcer, gastric ulcer or carcinoma, the level of gastric acid is reduced or the gastric motility is altered. Thus, endogenous microflora persists and often becomes the source of postoperative wound infections following gastric resection. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1198053/
Abstract: Bone mineral content in the distal part of the forearm was measured in 301 normal children and adolescents aged from 7-20 years to estimate total body calcium in these age groups. From year 7 to 9 and from year 15 to 20 the mean values in boys were significantly higher than those in girls. In the lower age groups there was a slow increase in estimated total body calcium with age, followed by a sharp increase at the age of puberty. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1198401/
Abstract: Spirometric and lung volume measurements were carried out before and after treatment with diethylcarbamazine in 19 patients with tropical eosinophilia. The total lung capacity and vital capacity returned to or nearly to normal while the FEV1 and PEFR, though improved, tended to remain below normal, indicating some residual airways obstruction especially in patients whose treatment began more than one month from the onset of symptoms. The time taken for the pulmonary function to return to normal with treatment was found to be much longer than for the clinical and haematological response. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1199014/
Abstract: Menu, formulation of meals, chemical composition and calorific value embracing 10 different dietary patterns for students of vocational technical schools disposed within an area of endemic goitre are cited. In compiling the rations account has been taken of the age-specific features of the students, the physiological standard rates now in force, a collection of meals formulations and the funds allocated for alimentation in the said schools. The proposed rations may be of prophylactic importance in the foci of endemic goitre and should help strengthen the health of the students. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1198411/
Abstract: A new device for the direct assessment of spontaneous platelet aggregation in human venous blood is described: the Filtragometer. The principle of the method is based on measurement of the pressure difference across a filter with pores of 20 mum diameter through which blood from a forearm vein is drawn. Platelet aggregates, obstructing the filter, cause a change in the pressure difference which is proportional to the degree of platelet aggregation. The measurement takes only a short time and a small amount (5-10 ml) of blood. Platelet aggregation as measured with the Filtragometer depends on the type of anticoagulant used. The Filtragometer response decreases on inhibition of platelet stickiness in vitro by prostaglandin E1 and in vivo by aspirin ingestion. Moreover it appeared to be higher in a group with a high thrombosis tendency than in a group less susceptible to fatal arterial thrombosis. The Filtragometer seems especially useful in monitoring the results of diet and/or drug therapy. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1199010/
Abstract: In 14 normal individuals and in 28 patients with chronic recurrent pancreatitis the total secretion of amylase, lipase and trypsin, as well as the proportions of these enzymes in 20 minute portions of the duodenal contents under basal conditions and after an intravenous injection of 1.5 Un/kg of the "Boots" pancreozymin were studied. A definite disproportion in the stimulated secretion of pancreatic enzymes with a higher amylase/lipase ratio and a lower lipase/trypsin ratio was found to occur as a physiological phenomenon, the degree of this disproportionality, however, being substantially greater in patients with chronic pancreatitis than in healthy persons. An inference is drawn that, along with an investigation into the overall amount of enzymes secreted secondary to pancreozymin stimulation, of importance is not so much the very fact of divulging the non-proportionality of the stimulated pancreatic enzymes secretion, but rather the analysis of the nature and the degree of this disproportionality. This is essential, in particular, when estimating the effect of various nutritional patterns on the external secretion of the pancreas. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1198857/
Abstract: The content of total blood plasma protein and its fractions in absolute quantities was studied in patients with acquired and congenital heart lesions in different terms of the early postoperative period (82 patients) after operative procedures, performed under conditions of artificial blood circulation. The indices were compared in two groups of patients showing different regimens of protein loss replenishment and normalization of the protein metabolism during the operation and after it. There were observed considerable intraoperative losses of protein that remained also during 3-4 days following the operative procedure. Therefore, some recommendations are given as to the substitutive protein therapy. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1198806/
Abstract: The results of treatment in 68 patients with vascular lesions of the lower limbs in diabetes mellitus are analysed. Fifty patients showed a necrotic and gangrenous stage of the disease. A grave form of diabetes was observed in half of them. In every case of diabetic angiopathy of the lower extremities vessels, irrespective of the gravity and stage of the process, insulinotherapy should be instituted. A complex therapy and preoperative management also include an adequate physiological diet, spasmolytics, vitamins, antibiotics according to an antibioticogram, and anticoagulants, local enzymotherapy, if indicated. In 13 cases spontaneous sequestration occurred, 31 patients were operated upon: sequestration--in 6, amputation--in 25. The operation was performed after elimination of auetonuria and ketonuria and reduction of hyperglycemia as low as 200 mg% (the latter was gained but not always). Recently, low amputations have been accomplished more frequently than before. No postoperative mortality was noted. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1199241/
Abstract: In a complex examination of clinically healthy persons, with postprandial glucosuria or affected with a hereditary diabetes mellitus differences were found in the dynamics of the insulin secretion in oral and venous glucose tolerance dependent on the character of the glucose tolerance. With the deterioration of the latter the insulinaemia increase and prolongs in oral tolerance, in venous tolerance, however, it will be lower and lower. The through analysis of the results refers to the pathogenetic role of the peripheral resistance to the insulin as well as the disturbed secretory function of the islet apparatus. The established connections allow of the derivation of pathogenetically proved criteria for the differentiation of normal, subnormal and pathologic glucose tolerance. The confronting of the insulinaemia with the adiposity of the persons examined detects the fundamental difference between persons with normal and disturbed carbohydrate tolerance. The increase of weight contributes to the manifestation of the genetic defect. From the prophylactic point of view apart from the significance of the adequate dietetic regimen the attention is also drawn to the effect of biguanides. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1199094/
Abstract: It has been shown that things cannot be otherwise; since everything was created for a purpose, this purpose must inevitably be the best possible. Observe that noses were made to wear spectacles and so we have spectacles. Legs were obviously intended to wear breeches and so we have breeches. Stones were made to be cut and to be made into mansions. That is why His Lordship has such a very fine mansion. The greatest baron in the province should be the best housed. Pigs were made to be eaten, so we eat pork all the year round. Therefore, people who told us merely that everything was well ordained were talking nonsense. They should have said, "Everything is ordained for the best."(1) 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1199288/
Abstract: On account of the increasing number of patients with essential obesity the delimitation of the Cushing-syndrome is of actual importance. Two observations of hypercortisolism in hyperplasia of the adrenal glands are reported on and the differential-diagnostically important parameters are demonstrated. According to our opinion anamnesis and clinical findings give the possibility of making a diagnosis already on a large scale. Analyses of the hormones and special X-ray examinations only serve for the preoperative ascertainment and localisation of the endocrine defective function. With the help of literary data causes and possibilities of treatment of Cushing's syndrome are entered. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1199585/
Abstract: The paper is a response to the paper by A. K. Akiev published in 1974 in the "Journal of Microbiology Epidemiology and Immunobiology": "Concerning the Epidemiology of El Tor cholera Abroad". The opinion of the author concerning the origin of El Tor infection in 1970, the sources of infection, and the factors of its transmission is critisized. Literature data and personal observations explaining the regularities of importation and spread of El Tor cholera as an intestinal infection are presented; these data are against the view of Akiev on El Tor cholera as a disease with a natural nidality caused by freely living vibrios. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1219630/
Abstract: Acebutolol, a new cardioselective beta-blocking agent, has been given for 5 days, at a daily dosage of 600 mg to 8 patients with mild essential hypertension. Plasma Renin Activity (PRA), Plasma aldosterone (PA), Aldosterone Metabolic Clearance Rate (AMCR), Aldosterone Secretion Rate (ASR) have been compared before and after treatment. Whatever is the daily sodium intake, acebutolol decreases PRA and does not change AMCR. Under a normal sodium diet, PA and ASR are unchanged, in spite of the fall in PRA. On the contrary, under a sodium free diet, the decrease in PRA is accompanied by a decrease in PA and ASR. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1219696/
Abstract: In order to investigate the intestinal absorption in relation to parasitic diseases, 106 children were studied using the xylose test. All of them were attending a primary school. The height and weight were recorded, and the hemoblobin and hematocrit were estimated in each one. The examination of the stools shown one or more parasites in 57.6 per cent specimens. The E. histolytica, Hymenolepis nana and A. lumbricoides, were identified in 22.6, 21.7 and 20.7 per cent children, respectively; G lamblia was found in 10.4 per cent. Only the children with Giardia had a statistical difference in the absorption of xylose, with respect to those without parasites. At the same time height was low in comparison to a group of children with similar age and sex, selected among the 45 without parasitic diseases. Findings are discussed according to the pathogenic mechanism involved in giardiasis. Emphasis is done in the interplay of malnutrition and G. lamblia. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1219672/
Abstract: Muscle fatigue is a common symptom but there are no universally accepted methods for quantitating the function of voluntary muscle. This paper describes three main methods of assessment: simple clinical tests of muscle function; thermal probe measurements of metabolic heat production during muscular contraction; needle biopsy studies of muscle structure and chemistry. These methods, though at a relatively early stage of development, have given promising results which suggest that they could be useful in assessing possible new forms of treatment in patients with neuromuscular disorders. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1220246/
Abstract: When 366 dispensary patients with respiratory diseases were examined in Moscow during the period December 1969--May 1971, 49 strains of rhinoviruses were isolated out of which 21 strains were identified as type 48. Using Eagle's medium with a single set of amino acids and vitamins for isolation rhinoviruses were isolated in 4.7% of cases, empdoying Eagle's medium with a double set of amino acids and vitamins in 16% of cases. Virus isolation experiments were carried out in HeLa-Bristol cell cultures and diploid strain of skin-muscle cells KM-13-70 in the presence of 30 mM MgCl2 and 2% aminopeptide. The isolation rate of rhinoviruses in both the cell cultures was approximately similar. The average duration of time for isolation of rhinoviruses in diploid cells was 13.4 days, in HeLa-Bristol cells 15 days. All rhinovirus strains were isolated within 3 passages. In addition to rhinoviruses, from the same group of patients 25 Coxsackie A-21 strains, 12 adenovirus strains and 2 herpesvirus strains were isolated using Eagle's medium with double set of amino acids and vitamins. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1239119/
Abstract: Diurnal periodicity of the glucocorticoid function of the adrenal cortex was studied in 52 patients with atherosclerotic cardiosclerosis without and with circulatory insufficency of the I, IIA and IIB stage, based on the determination of 17-OCS in 3 portions of the urine collected at equal 8-hours long time intervals. The patients without circulatory insufficiency and with insufficiency of the 1st stage received ascorbic acid in amounts of 0.3 g thrice a day, along with vitamins B1 and B6 (5 and 6 per cent) in doses of 1 ml for 14-16 days. Patients with circulatory insufficiency of the IIA and IIB stages were given vitamins and cardiac glycosides. Investigations ascertained disturbed rhythmic and functional activity of the suprarenals in these patients. The treatment resulted in improving the glucocorticoid function of the adrenal cortex with simultaneous normalization of the rhythmic activity of the suprarenals. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1239036/
Abstract: Moderate amounts of several different experimental procedures are capable of producing stomach lesions in laboratory rats. The fact that some animals fail to develop such lesions under most conditions suggests that uncontrolled variables are involved in the physiological response. Although physiological characteristics of the experimental animals have most often been studied, several reports indicate that the activity level of the animal just before the stress period is related to the proportion of animals that develop lesions or the severity of lesions that develop. This suggests that the tendency to develop stomach lesions may depend on the interaction between the level of an animal's activity and the nature of the environmental conditions to which it is exposed. A study is reported in which two equally pathogenic environmental conditions are shown to be differentially pathogenic for behaviorally different animals. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1239202/
Abstract: Propylthiouracil (6-propyl-2-thiouracil), an anti-thyroid agent, was fed to mice in a concentration equal to 0.1% of their diet for periods of 10 and 15 weeks. The cells of the inner zone of the adrenal cortex were examined with the electron microscope. In animals receiving propylthiouracil for ten weeks mitochondria were altered and the smooth endoplasmic reticulum (SER) showed a marked focal proliferation. In contrast to control animals rough endoplasmic reticulum was abundant and was frequently associated with the hyperplastic SER. After 15 weeks these alterations were no longer present but had been replaced by a spectrum of "brown degeneration." The less affected cells were characterized by increased numbers of liposomes and lysosomes and the more affected cells by liposomal and mitochondrial degeneration. These observations emphasize that "brown degeneration" is a true degenerative process and not a spontaneous proliferation of ceroid pigment. It is suggested that the changes described may be directly related to an alteration in cholesterol metabolism. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1239120/
Abstract: Following introduction of ethyl alcohol in a dose of 4 g/kg for 4 months to rats receiving a solid food ration and 5gamma of thiamine the activity of the erythrocytes transketolase and the thiamine level in the liver did not experience any marked changes, but the transketolase activity in the liver increased. A replacement of one half of carbohydrates in the liquid ration with an isocaloric quantity of ethyl alcohol led over a period of 2 and 4 months to a rise in the activity of the erythocytes transketolase. The thiamine content in the liver mounted too, but then transketolase activity in the liver significantly decreased. The cause accounting for the conflicting liver transketolase changes with different rations and the mechanism of the "thiamine-saving" action of ethyl alcohol are discussed. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1239385/
Abstract: In vitro isometric contractile tension was measured in heart and skeletal muscle in 3 groups of mice: 1. a control group, 2. a group maintained for 27 weeks on 20% alcohol, and 3. a group whose fluid intake was restricted to the extent equaling that which occurred in the alcohol treated animals. Results showed a reduction in cardiac twitch tension in both the alcohol and fluid restricted group, as compared to normal controls. We therefore consider that dehydration per se may play an important role in the etiology of alcoholic cardiomyopathy. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1239768/
Abstract: The changes in the haematological parameters and iron metabolism in rats with fatty livers after they had been fed with 20% alcohol and normal standard diet for a period of 12 months were studied. The haematocrit, haemoglobulin concentration and erythrocyte count were within the normal range. The erythropoietic rate was elevated, probably as the result of the shortened life-span of the erythrocytes. The rate of iron absorption in the alcoholic rat did not vary. The iron stores in the spleen and small intestine were, however, markedly increased. The ferrokinetic study shows that the alcoholic rat had a lower plasma iron turnover rate. In view of the elevated erythropoiesis the implication of this finding is difficult to interpret when the efflux of plasma iron to the unspecific soft tissues is not available. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1239775/
Abstract: Lithium chloride at two different doses (1 mEq/kg and 2 mEq/kg) IP BID for 10 days failed to inhibit muricidal behavior in rats. Lithium chloride at the higher dose caused neurotoxicity in 6 of 11 rats as measured by the rotorod. These dosages generated serum levels of 0.70 and 1.00 mEq/L respectively. The same behavior was blocked by imipramine HC1 at an ED50 of 8.5 mg/kg 45 min following a single IP injection without evidence of neurotoxicity by the rotorod method. These results indicate that lithium chloride is unlike the tricyclic agents in the muricide test. Therefore, if its clinical antidepressant activity is substantial, it may be most effective in a neurochemically different class of depressives than the tricyclics. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1239608/
Abstract: To produce physical dependence on morphine, phenobarbital and diazepam in rats, these drugs were mixed with powder form of rat food in concentrations of 0.5 mg/g, 1 mg/g and 2 mg/g of food. One group of rats (the lower dose group) was continuously exposed for 1 week to two morphine-admixed foods with morphine to food ratios of 0.5 mg/g and 1 mg/g in a cage. The other group (the higher dose group) could choose between two morphine-admixed foods with morphine to food ratios of 1 mg/g and 2 mg/g. After 1 week, morphine-admixed foods were replaced with morphine free food for 2 days. Both groups of rats showed greatly reduced body weight and food intake after the first 24-48 hr withdrawal. The body weight decrease was greater for rats in the higher dose group. Control groups of morphine dependent rats were kept on the morphine added food diets and showed the same body weight increase as well as normal control rats during the course of these experiments. Physical dependence on phenobarbital and diazepam was produced using the same dosage schedules as with morphine. Both the lower and higher dose groups showed significant decrease in body weight due to withdrawal after 1 week of drug-food exposure. Levallorphan (0.5, 1, 3 and 5 mg/kg, s.c.) administered to morphine dependent rats had dose-dependent effects on the intensity of abstinence symptoms (e.g., diarrhea, piloerection and wet shakes phenomena), maximal decrease in body weight and duration of decreased body weight. Cross-physical dependence between phenobarbital and diazepam was demonstrated by this method. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1239781/
Abstract: Adult rats, required to perform a motor coordination task while under the influence of ethanol (2.2 g/kg) daily for 12 days, developed significant tolerance to the effects of ethanol, not only on this test but also on a food-motivated maze task. At the same time, they showed reduced shock threshold for production of a startle response, and reduced open field test scores 23 hrs after the last dose of ethanol. Other animals receiving the same dose of ethanol immediately after each training session on the coordination task, and others performing the task and receiving no ethanol, showed no tolerance on either test and no change in shock threshold or open field behavior. The results suggest that behaviorally augmented tolerance depends on basic neuronal adaptive changes indistinguishable from those accompanying physiological tolerance and dependence. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1239862/
Abstract: An excess of phenylalanine in the diet of rats was found to produce toxic action, especially strongly pronounced in animals receiving low-protein ration. A protein-rich diet is shown to produce a definite protective effect in acute poisoning with phenylalanine. In the blood and hepatic tissue of rats receiving for 15-30 days a diet containing 24 per cent of caseine and 7 per cent of phenylalanine there occurred a marked disproportion of free amino acids, i.e. a state of endogenous amino acids imbalance. The nature of biochemical disorders arising in the blood of these animals essentially differs from changes characteristic of the blood of the children suffering from phenylketonuria. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1239784/
Abstract: Tolerance and physical dependence was produced in C57Bl/6 male mice that had been exposed, for 36 days, to methaqualone in food pellets via an automated system. Tolerance was revealed in the reduction of sleep-times following intraperitoneal injection of methaqualone. Physical dependence was manifested as an alteration in neural sensitivity to flurothyl-induced convulsions. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1239887/
Abstract: The substitution of a constant reinforcement for a random one with a probability of 0.5 in experiments on two dogs with a simple motor stereotype was attended with nervous breakdowns with motor excitation, inadequate orienting reactions or passive-defensive behaviour. The change in the probability of reinforcement from 0.5 to 0.3 had a positive effect in experiments on one dog, while in the other it developed drowsiness. In two other dogs with a complicated stereotype, the change in the mode of reinforcement was attended with a peculiar preventive effect of probabilistic, but ordered reinforcement in experimental surroundings, including signals with a probabilistic random reinforcement as well. In this case the dogs displayed primarily signs of emotional stress only. Behaviour was somewhat disturbed in one animal only when testing signals with a probabilistic random reinforcement. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1239976/
Abstract: To shed light on the practice of outpatient anaesthesia in Finland 126 hospitals performing outpatient surgery were asked about the drugs used and about postoperative care. 64% of the hospitals replied. Intravenous were more popular than inhalation agents. Diazepam (57%), propanidid (52%) and thiopentone (52%) were the most commonly used drugs. Nitrous oxide, mostly in combination with other anaesthetics, diazepam with pethidine, and halothane were used in 48%, 41% and 36% of the hospitals respectively. Divinylether and diethylether were employed in 35% and 15% respectively. Propanidid, thiopentone and diazepam were the first choice in 29%, 21%, and 11% respectively, while divinylether was still the first choice agent in 11%. Most central hospitals used nitrous oxide (82%), thiopentone (65%), halothane (60%), propanidid (50%) and methohexitone (25%). Small hospitals, where anaesthesia was not administered by specialists, most frequently used ethers (divinylether 51%, diethylether 29%), diazepam with pethidine (54%), propanidid (49%) and diazepam alone (34%). After propanidid, thiopentone and methohexitone patients were generally kept in hospital for 3 hours and advised against driving for between 17 to 20 hours. It is concluded that the choice of drugs seems appropriate. However, supplementation with nitrous oxide could reduce the high doses of intravenous anaesthetics used and result in reduced side-effects and more rapid recoveries. The wide use of involved anaesthetic techniques in rural areas stresses the importance of teaching anaesthesiology to general practitioners. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1239955/
Abstract: Lipid analyses were performed on the liver of a patient who died during an episode of acute fatty liver of pregnancy, and on livers from normal subjects and from subjects suffering from nutritional fatty livers. Comparison of these data indicates that in fatty liver of pregnancy the increased hepatic lipids consist primarily of free fatty acids. The recognized toxicity of fatty acids suggests a pathogenic mechanism for the disease. Nutritional fatty liver is associated predominantly with an increase in triglyceride. These changes are not the result of postmortem change, and they confirm and extend the previous data concerning the fat accumulation in human hepatic illness. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1240629/
Abstract: Rats fed on a supplement of raw cabbage, brinjal, dhal or powdered milk given in addition to a staple rice or laboratory stock diet show a high degree of protection against experimental ulceration following pyloric ligation. Wheat bran and ragi (a millet) conferred some protection, whereas rice bran and maize conferred no protection. The protection conferred by raw cabbage was destroyed by cooking. The lettuce used conferred no protection. The significance of such findings with regard to the geographical distribution of duodenal ulcer in India and Africa is discussed. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1240066/
Abstract: One group of rats (n equals 6) was allowed free access to food combined with morphine and cocaine for 3 weeks, another group combined with either morphine or cocaine alone for 3 weeks. Intensity of decrease in body weight by withdrawal and ratios of spontaneous morphine and cocaine intake were compared, and the cross-spontaneous drug intake between morphine and cocaine using cocaine and morphine dependent rats was investigated, respectively. The results indicate that (a) decreased rate in body weight by withdrawal after 3 weeks administration with morphine-cocaine mixtures increased slightly, and spontaneous intake ratio for the higher drug-admixed food during administration period was also slightly increased as compared with a morphine added diet alone. (b) However, spontaneous intake ratio of both morphine [morphine (1 mg/g of food) vs. a normal diet (N.D.)] and cocaine [cocaine (2 mg/g of food) vs. N.D] increased 30 and 50 approximately 60% respectively, and these changes were maintained for about two months. (c) Spontaneous cocaine intake ratio after 3 weeks administration of morphine was almost the same level as that in cocaine dependent rats and decreased dependently when the administration period was extended. Spontaneous morphine intake ratio after 3 weeks administration of cocaine was 20% lower in total daily intake ratio as compared to morphine dependent rats, but spontaneous morphine intake ratio as compared to morphine dependent rats was gradually increased as in morphine dependent rats. (d) Furthermore, morphine-quinine combined treatment and cocaine or codeine treatment had no effect on spontaneous intake of quinine. These data suggest that combinations of morphine and cocaine have promoting properties of morphine and cocaine intake, respectively. Cross-spontaneous drug intake between morphine and cocaine was successful only in cocaine dependent rats using this method. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1240097/
Abstract: VO2 VE, and heart rates (fH) were measured in 61 Colombian sugarcane cutters while harvesting cane in the AM and PM and in the laboratory during a VO2max test. Productivity and sweat rates were also measured in the field. The subjects had an estimated dietary intake of 2,970 kcal/day, which was lower than calculated daily energy expenditure. During the work measurements the VO2 was 1.5 1/min, VE 48 1/min, and fH 135 beats/min; there were no differences between AM and PM values. The subjects sustained about 35% of VO2max during the 8 h workday, but worked at 57% of VO2max during the tests. Measured energy cost was 7.4 +/- 1.5 kcal/min during the workday. Sweat rates were higher PM than AM (5 KG/8 h day). Grouping of the men according to productivity demonstrated that taller, heavier men were better producers and had lower calculated heart rates at VO2 1.51/min. Efficiency of cane cutting was higher (9%) PM. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1239977/
Abstract: A 28-year-old man was found to have hypouricaemia (plasma uric acid, 0.40 to 1.25 mg/100 ml). The 24-hour urinary urate excretion on a low purine diet was 690 mg, a value higher than the mean value of 419 mg for gouty Japanese patients. Urate clearance was 88.5 ml/min--approximately the same as the endogeneous creatinine clearance. The ratio of urate clearance to creatinine clearance was scarcely altered by pyrazinamide, but diminished by probenecid (from 69.2% to 52.4%). No other renal tubular abnormalities were detected. The findings in this subject may be accounted for by a nearly complete tubular defect in reabsorptive transport mechanisms of urate. A survey of his family revealed at least three similarly affected persons, who were all from consanguineous marriages. The hypouricaemia was transmitted as an autosomal trait. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1239986/
Abstract: The effects on behaviour and growth of rats given heroin s.c. every 8-hr, and during withdrawal (saline q.8.h.) were studied. Performance of rats trained on one food-reinforcement schedule (FR-10 or VI-10) was tested every day after one of the injections of saline or heroin. Doses of 0.25 mg/kg/injection heroin hydrochloride were increased stepwise to 32 mg/kg as "behavioural tolerance" developed. Threshold doses which blocked feeding in the first 30 min of testing ranged from 0.75 to 4.0 mg/kg and "tolerance" to 32 mg/kg/injection required from 18-71 + days. Heroin interrupted growth in heavier rats; lighter rats gained like saline-treated controls. Within 48 hr of withdrawal bar-pressing increased but all rats lost weight, were hyperirritable, and had diarrhoea. Thereafter, performance and body weight rose steadily. Administration of heroin at regular intervals over a prolonged period, and withdrawal from it, cause a disruption in behaviour comparable to that reported for morphine. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1240750/
Abstract: The criteria chosen for the diagnosis of gastro-intestinal intolerance to cow milk proteins were the following: occurrence of shock or anaphylaxis, reccurrence of gastro-intestinal symptoms as a consequence of repeated trials of reintroduction of cow milk proteins into the diet. Under these conditions the transient forms, including the secondary forms, of intolerance to cow milk, were eliminated. This diagnostic attitude may explain the early appearance of gastro-intestinal disturbances, the higher frequency in infancy than in childhood of the severe forms, characterized by shock, subacute malabsorption, exsudative enteropathy, bloody diarrhea, the authors are describing in their study report. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1240751/
Abstract: Biological and histological studies were performed in 42 cases of gastro-intestinal intolerance to cow's milk proteins. Hypoproteinemia was present in 2/3 of the cases, anemia in 3/4. Malabsorption syndrome (steatorrhea, xylose) was overt in less than 1 patient out of 2. Serum level of vitamin A was more frequently depressed than that of vitamin E and folinic acid. Intestinal biopsy, performed in 32 children, showed consistent abnormalities, a partial atrophy of the villi being most often seen (26 cases). Eosinophilia was present in 50% of the cases. A titer of anti-milk agglutinins of 1/64 or above was always found if the test was performed repeatedly when the diet of the children contained milk. Lymphocyte proliferation in culture, induced by milk proteins, was positive in 70% of the cases. None the less, no biological or histological findings were found to be specific for gastro-intestinal intolerance to milk proteins. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1250505/
Abstract: A case of Lyell's syndrome in a patient of paediatric age is presented complete with iconography organized according to the chronological sequence of skin manifestations. The aetiopathogentic aspects are discussed, from the importance of pharmacotoxic factors to that of bacterial or viral agents and unknown factors. The possible immunological or genetic mechanism that may play a part are also examined. The histological picture is described and the personal therapeutic approach is commented on. This is suitable for everyday clinical practice and consists of local dermato-oculo-protective treatment, rehydration and antishock treatment, and anti-infective and nutritional measures. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1250618/
Abstract: In a girl with latent diabetes mellitus, glucose tolerance and insulin release were regularly examined from 6 to 12 years of age. Under diet height and weight increased normally, the glucose intolerance disappeared, and the hypoinsulinism turned into hyperinsulinism with reactive hypoglycemia. This observation demonstrates that in a longitudinal study, the same patient may present in one period with glucose intolerance (latent diabetes) and insulin deficiency and in another period with normal glucose tolerance (prediabetes) and insulin excess. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1250615/
Abstract: If children who were originally fully capable and active according to their respective age groups, remain more than 50% overweight for a period of more than 3 years, develop a significantly lower motor, intellectual and social activity. They tend to develop an anxious auto-aggressive behavior, because it is difficult for them to transmit to others the social pressures to which they are subject. The probability of a permanent therapeutic success diminishes as the duration of the period of overweight increases. Only physically and emotionally orientated therapy is rational as 78% of our overweight children come from neurotically disturbed families. Overweight can often be due to lack of love where intensity of affection is wrongly applied. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1250163/
Abstract: The constant isotope-infusion method of Picou and Taylor-Roberts was used to study rates of total body protein synthesis and breakdown in adult subjects following acute changes in the level of dietary protein intake. Six healthy adults, four males and two females, were studied after adaptation to dietary protein intakes of 1.5 and 0.38 g of protein/kilogram body weight/day. Dietary periods were from 7 to 15 days duration. 15N-glycine was used as a tracer, and was administered orally for 60 hr at 3-hr intervals, or by continuous intravenous infusion for 48 hr. Results were similar for both routes of isotope administration for the comparison conducted at the higher protein intake. At the 1.5-g protein level the mean N flux was 28.2 mg nitrogen/kg/hr, with total body protein (N x 6.25) synthesis and breakdown rates being 3.0 g/kg/day and 2.7 g/kg/day, respectively. Reducing the protein intake to 0.38 g/kg/day caused an 8% decrease (p less than 0.05) in N flux, a 27% increase (p less than 0.005) in the rate of total body protein breakdown, and a 15% increase (p less than 0.05) in the rate of protein synthesis. Endogenous amino acids were reutilized more efficiently under these conditions. The findings are discussed in relation to the way in which adult subjects adapt to acute changes in dietary protein intake. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1250157/
Abstract: The contribution of alanine to the synthesis of glucose and the oxidation of alanine was evaluated in normal and septic patients using (14C)L-alanine. The data indicate that there is a twofold increase in the conversion of alanine into glucose in sepsis and, further, this increase was observed while the patients were receiving a constant glucose infusion (100 mg/min) prior to and during the single injection of (14C)L-alanine. Failure of glucose to decrease this gluconeogenic response in these septic patients clearly indicates that the controlling mechanism for glucose synthesis is modified following injury and undoubtedly plays a role in the abnormal carbohydrate metabolism observed in injury. The contribution of alanine carbon to oxidation was the same in the control and septic group as measured by the per cent of the (14C)L-alanine dose expired in 3 h. Since the control subjects received glucose continuously during the study with and without amino acids, it is clear that nutritional intake and injury has minimal effect on the oxidation of alanine. This suggests that transamination is not affected by sepsis nor is there an inhibition of pyruvate oxidation following sepsis. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1250623/
Abstract: The encopresis of faecal impaction is a paradoxical incontinence found with constipation or faecal retention due to somatic or psychic causes. Normal continence comprises the possibility to delay passages of stools and the avoidance of leakage of stool in the meantime. Continued delay of defaecations causes faecal impaction and paradoxical leakage of stool. It is necessary to break the vicious circle by emptying the rectal ampulla and to avoid further constipation by means of laxatives and diet. Uderlying psychological disturbances must be recognized and treated. Two individual cases among our patients illustrate various aspects of the problem. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1250156/
Abstract: A study was conducted to evaluate the effects on blood lipids and lipoproteins of feeding 21 healthy volunteers, 40-60 yr old, foods commonly eaten in the United States for two 40-day periods. Activities of lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) and LDH isoenzymes, lactate, and pyruvate were monitored. Results showed that LDH activity was significantly lower in all subjects at the end of the 25% fat-calorie period (period I) than at the beginning of the study, but rose above initial levels at the end of the 35% fat-calorie period (period II). While total LDH fell during period I, relative activity of M type subunits of LDH rose significantly in relation to H type in both sexes. This rise is probably indicative of an increase in glycolytic activity as a consequence of the increased intake of dietary carbohydrate. In period I, lactate and pyruvate decreased significantly in males (pyruvate greater than lactate) but not in females. Values for males returned to near initial levels in period II. The ratio of lactate/pyruvate was elevated in both sexes after period I. The greater change in pyruvate relative to lactate with increased dietary carbohydrate suggests increased Krebs Cycle activity. There was a statistically significant positive correlation between lactate, pyruvate, and serum triglyceride for males after they ate the 25% and 35% fat-calorie diets and for females after they ate the 35% fat-calorie diet, but not between lactate, pyruvate, and serum cholesterol for either sex. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1250628/
Abstract: A boy 14 years of age, weighing 93,45 kg and 143 cm in height was refered to our clinic with hyperphagia and pain in the joints. The patient showed the Prader-Labhart-Willi-syndrome. Through maximal diet therapy, 2 admittances in our ward and through intensive psychological outpatient care, we have seen a weight loss of 26 kg in 18 months and clear improvement in the patient's health. We would like to draw attention to the fact that a weight reduction diet is a cooperative family effort. To satiate uncontrollable hunger an intermittent dose of Fenfluramine (0,5 mg/kg) is recommended. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1250625/
Abstract: The prolonged use of a salt restricted infant formula (1.9 mEq Na/kg/day and 1,4 mEq C1/kg/day) in a child with undiagnosed cystic fibrosis led to a life threatening metabolic disturbance. The main features were hypochloraemic alkalosis due to massive loss of electrolytes in the sweat. Urinary electrolyte excretion, however, had been lowered to a minimum due to aldosteron induced reabsorption. Plasma aldosterone levels were initially high, but returned to normal after addition of salt to the feeds. Prior to admission a sweat test had been negative. The patient clearly demonstrates the unique metabolic feature of cystic fibrosis of the ability to retain electrolytes in the tubulus and at the same time the inability of the sweat glands to reabsorb sodium and chloride. Contrary to present experience severe prolonged salt restriction is believed to be able to diminish sweat electrolytes to subpathological values. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1250655/
Abstract: Eighty-eight rats were paired at birth according to sex and weight. One member of each pair received two electroconvulsive seizures a day during the neonatal period (days 2 to 11). Access of its control littermate to the mother was restricted so that the body weights of any two paired rats never diverged by more than 2 gm on any day of life, and were usually within one half gram of each other. This guaranteed that the nutritional status of seizure-treated and control animals was similar throughout development. On day 30 of life, seizure-treated rats had smaller brains (-56 mg, P less than .05) and reduced numbers of brain cells (-13.10(6), P less than .05) compared to their control littermates. It was concluded that the reduction of brain DNA brought about by neonatal seizures was not simply caused by malnutrition of seizure-treated animals. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1250633/
Abstract: A classification of formulas with defined compositions of their nutritive substances into 3 groups has been made in the Federal Republic of Germany with the objective to achieve a standardization. It is differentiated between adapted, partially adapted, and non-adapted formulas. As defined, the composition of adapted formulas is closest to human milk. Since adapted formulas are thought to be of physiological value, one is surprised by the fact, that shortly after discharge from the maternity hospital partially adapted or nonadapted formulas are favoured by a high percentage (of mothers). The reasons for this are analyzed. By the end of the third month of life the premature infant is depending on the administration of iron. At this time signs of a more or less latent iron deficiency are developing. In the full term infant this condition will be reached approximately by the age of six months. Since iron-salts may interfere with the vitamin E supply in the premature infant, one should either administer a water soluble vitamin E preparation or the necessary iron prophylaxis should be started in these children only in the third month of life. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1251008/
Abstract: Increased metabolic activity with the periosteum is demonstrated radiographically by the presence of a linear shadow of bone paralleling the cortex, most commonly reflecting increased osteoblastic activity and thus representing periosteal new bone. This is frequently seen in psoriatic arthritis and Reiter's syndrome. A similar picture occurs with increased osteoclastic activity and reflects rapid demineralization, simulating periostitis. This change must be recognized as a reflection of osteoporosis, lest the condition be misdiagnosed as inflammatory disease. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1250299/
Abstract: In 1973, 18,032 young Americans, 15 to 24 years of age, died in motor-vehicle accidents, 5182 were murdered, and 4098 committed suicide. The death rate, for this age group, was 19 per cent higher in 1973-74 than it had been in 1960-61, owing entirely to deaths by violence. The largest rise in deaths from homicide during the past two decades was at the ages of one to four. For a considerable proportion of American children and youth, the "culture of violence" is now both a major health threat and a way of life. One contributing factor is television's massive daily diet of symbolic crime and violence in "entertainment" programs. After numerous studies of televsion influence on real-life violence, including two major government commissions, the industry is experimenting with a 7 to 9 p.m. "Family Hour" (6 to 8 p.m. Central Time) from which violence, along with sex, has been largely banished. Three industry unions claim censorship and are suing. The medical profession is urged to concern itself with this serious and complex health hazard. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1251130/
Abstract: In 13 patients with duodenal ulceration psychic stimulation with food resulted in a significant rise in gastric acid secretion and in serum gastrin. This rise was abolished when the patients were pre-treated with sulpiride, a non-sedative neuroleptic acting on the hypothalamus. These findings suggest that sulpiride, by virtue of its inhibitory effect on the cephalic phase of acid secretion, may be a useful adjunct in the treatment of duodenal ulcers. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1251143/
Abstract: Consumption of drugs, alcohol and tobacco has been compared in two populations of 19-year-old men, of 1971 (2785) and 1974 (1617), drawn from three different geographical regions of the Canton of Zurich. The hypothesis that the percentage of drug users has risen over the last three years was not confirmed: as previously, 25% have had experience of drugs. As expected, however, there was more regular and heavy drug users in 1974 than in 1971. Also, there is a more marked trend towards extension of drug consumption to rural areas than in 1971. The percentage of cigarette smokers has remained stable, but per capita cigarette consumption has increased. Contrary to expectation, alcohol consumption showed the sharpest rise in all three regions. The study suggests that drug consumption is not to be considered in isolation but in conjunction with the use of alcohol and tobacco. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1251155/
Abstract: In 27 thyrotoxic patients and in 177 healthy controls from the area of Essen we studied the total urinary iodine excretion. Whereas the iodine excretion was only 43.7 +/- 27.3 mug iodine per g creatine in the controls, the corresponding average value was significantly higher in thyrotoxic patients. It amounted to 193.3 +/- 201.7 mug iodine per g creatinine. This finding can not be explained by selection of patients with autonomous adenomas and contamination with iodine. Possible causes are an increased daily iodine uptake by increased dietary intake or iodine containing drugs that might not be remembered by the patients and increased renal clearance of iodine. Strong evidence for a contamination with iodine is the finding of increased differences between measured and calculated PBI, the latter being derived from T4 (D). The differences averaged in both groups 5.3 and 3.2 mug/100 ml. Our data can not exclude a basedowification of preexisting goiters. This unexpected finding gives rise to corresponding investigations in other thyroid centers. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1251149/
Abstract: Patients treated for obesity by total starvation were followed up after a period ranging from 7 to 60 months. Starvation treatment had been carried out 12 times in women and 7 times in men. Weight regain was less than 33% of weight loss in 5 women and 5 men and the regain was 40% in 1 man. Weight increase was higher than 50% of weight loss in 7 women and 1 man. The weight of one of these women exceeded the prestarvation weight. In view of these poor long-term results, therapeutic starvation should be carried out only in selected cases. Our experience indicates a better prognosis for men than for women. There is some indication that long-term results of therapeutic starvation are more favorable in patients with previous myocardial infarction or with somatic conditions which may improve after weight reduction. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1251162/
Abstract: A patient with Rotor syndrome has been followed up for 28 years. The subject was in good health and exhibited marked jaundice due to a hyperbilirubinemia ranging between 5 and 8 mg bilirubin per 100 ml, about 70% of the bilirubin giving direct van den Berg reaction. The liver was slightly enlarged and of normal color. Histologically it showed traces of a brown pigment and marked siderosis in the hepatocytes. In addition, mild hypersideremia and hypercholesteremia were observed together with increased amounts of bilirubin and urobilinogen in urine. Menthol glucuronide formation was normal. Hepatic excretion of bilirubin, sulfobromophthalein and radio-opaque dyes was impaired. There was no change in liver histology of biopsies taken at an interval of 6 years, the siderosis in particular remaining constant. During the observation a moderate increase in the activities of serum transaminases occurred but no longer recurred when physical and dietetic stress was avoided. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1251169/
Abstract: Concentrations of mercury and of creatinine were measured under blind conditions in 84 samples of urine from 48 regularly using a liquid soap containing 0.04% phenylmercuric borate plus 3% hexachlorophene for hand disinfection ("users"), and in 138 urine samples of 80 subjects disinfecting their hands with a soap containing only hexachlorophene ("controls"). The concentration of mercury in the urine of users was 27+/-3 mug/1 (mean +/- SE), and in controls 8+/-1 mug/1; calculated total 24 h urinary mercury excretions were 27+/-2 mug/24 h users and 9+/-1 mug/24 h in controls. Women excreted slightly more mercury than men both in the user group and the control group. In both controls and users from whom a second urine sample was obtained after a 2-week interval the concentration of mercury was consistently lower in the second sample. No correlation was found between urinary excretion of mercury and frequency of handwashings or reported intake of mercury-containing food. No difference was found in the numbers of different types of urinary cells or urine pH as between users and controls. It is concluded 1) that regular hand disinfection with a liquid soap containing 0.04% phenylmercuric borate enhanced urinary excretion of mercury indicating an increase in total daily absorption of 30-100 mug Hg/24 h, 2) that the absorption of mercury from the phenylmercuric borate-containing soap occurred partly by transfer from the hands to the oral cavity, 3) that, though nontoxic in themselves, the additional amounts of mercury absorbed through the use of mercury contained in skin disinfectants are potentially dangerous due to as yet unknown interactions with other toxic or pathogenic factors. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1251679/
Abstract: Serum levels of IgE, other immunoglobulins and C'3 were measured in 36 MS patients, and the results compared with those of 40 age- and sex-matched patients hospitalized on Neurology Service. Diagnoses among controls included cerebral infarction, cervical spondylosis, nonmigrainous headache, seizure disorders and peripheral neuropathy. Six patients in the MS group and seven in the non-MS group had a past history of allergy to food, drugs, dust or other substances. IgE levels were measured by double-antibody radioimmunoassay. Other immunoglobulins (G, M, D and A) and C'3 were quantitated by Mancini's method. Results indicate that the median IgE and C'3 levels of MS patients were slightly lower than those for non-MS subjects. Concentrations of other immunoglobulins were similar for the two groups. CSF samples from 12 MS and five non-MS patients were studied and none of these contained measureable (greater than 7.5 U/ml) IgE. In view of: 1) recent reports describing mast cells in MS plaques, 2) the suggested role of biogenic amines in the pathogenesis of demyelinating diseases, and 3) because IgE exists in free and cell bound state, it is suggested that tissue surveys of MS plaques for IgE deposits similar to those seen in glomeruli in nephrotic syndromes may provide a clue to the pathogenesis of MS. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1251725/
Abstract: Mild rickets was present in 7, and 3 others with severe bone disease developed widespread skeletal demineralization and multiple fractures. The intake of vitamin D was apparently loosely related to the severity of the osteodystrophy. The latter however, was closely linked to both the serum inorganic phosphate and the calciumXphosphate product. The serum calcium was directly related to the infant's gestational maturity, hypocalcaemia being present in those born before 35 weeks. Pathogenetic factors have probably included reactive hyperparathyroidism and nutritional deprivation associated with preterm delivery. Five of the infants who had biliary atresia developed radiological evidence of osteoporosis from about twelve months of age. This may be related to protracted calcium malabsorption, but its true nature remains to be elucidated. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1251733/
Abstract: Generalized lipodystrophy (Berardinelli-Seip's syndrome) was diagnosied in a boy at the age of 8-1/2 months. Ten months later he died because of aspiration of food. Necropsy with special reference to the CNS revealed hypothalamic lesions, probably of a malformative or hamartomatous nature. The findings lend additional support to the view that hypothalamic dysfunction is responsible for the signs and symptoms of generalized lipodystrophy. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1268727/
Abstract: Newborn Long-Evans rats were undernourished by maternal deprivation so that by 20 days of age their body and brain weights were about 45 and 80%, respectively, of the values obtained for control (well-nourished) values. Proteins from myelin of undernourished and control rats were separated by polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis in buffers containing sodium dodecyl sulfate. At 15 and 20 days of age the proportion of basic and proteolipid protein was reduced in the starved animals relative to controls, indicative of a delay in maturation. However, by 30 days of age the composition of myelin from starved and control animals appeared similar. At all ages the yield of myelin from brains of starved rats was less than 25% of that obtained from control animals. A series of isotope labeling experiments, using a double label design, was carried out to compare relative rates of incorporation of radioactive amino acids into individual proteins of various brain subcellular fractions. In 20-day-old rats the incorporation of [3H] OR [14C] leucine or glycine into myelin proteins, relative to incorporation into proteins of other subcellular fractions, is preferentially depressed (about 60%) in starved animals. Synthesis of all the myelin proteins was depressed, supporting the hypothesis that the high molecular weight proteins isolated with myelin are true myelin constituents. Similar experiments were conducted using [3H]-and [14C] acetate, choline, or glycerol as precursors of lipids. Incorporation of isotope into lipids of myelin, relative to lipids of other subcellular fractions, was also depressed by about 60% in starved animals. In several experiments we studied synthesis during rehabilitation (ad libitum feeding) following 20 days of postnatal starvation. After 6 days of rehabilitation, incorporation of radioactive precursors into myelin, relative to other subcellular fractions, was still depressed. This result was true for both proteins and lipids, and was interpreted as evicence against the initiation of a process leading to a net recovery of myelin (i.e., an irreversible deficit of myelin synthesis is induced by this regime of nutritional deprivation). 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1269097/
Abstract: Plasma renin activity, arterial and venous angiotensin II (A II), plasma aldosterone, and sodium excretion were measured in a group of 101 patients with mild essential hypertension. For the total hour; arterial A II was 5.2 +/- 1.0 pg/ml; venous A II was 4.2 +/- 0.6 pg/ml; and plasma aldosterone was 5.0 +/- 0.45 ng/100 ml. All values were lower corresponding values for normal subjects on a high salt intake despite the fact that salt intake in the normal subjects exceeded that for the hypertensive group more than 3-fold. Moreover, when the range of diastolic blood pressure up to 114 mm Hg was divided into three successive class intervals of increasing severity, there was a negative correlation between diastolic blood pressure and both PRA and plasma aldosterone. Arterial A II showed an anomalous increase in the class interval 105-114 mm Hg, despite the fact that this group exhibited the lowest level of PRA. At diastolic blood pressures above 114 mm Hg, the PRA appears to rise again. The anomalous increase in arterial A II in the presence of marked suppression of PRA is consistent with the presence of a renin activator or accelerator factor in hypertensive plasma as postulated by others. It also identifies a possible mechanism whereby even small increases in PRA could exert an adverse effect on the hypertensive state. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1268778/
Abstract: Constipation is endemic in the Western world. Stool consistence and associated symptoms are more important than stool frequency. The patient's attitude towards his bowel habit is also important. Exclusion of "organic" disease, reassurance and discussion of normal variations of bowel habit are necessary first steps in treatment. Adquate bulk in the stool must be ensured, either through diet or bulking agnets, and bowel retraining attempted. Laxatives should be reserved for episodes of constipation following enforced bedrest, or as a preparation for diagnostic procedures. Long-term use should be avoided. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1268726/
Abstract: Long-Evans rats were undernourished from birth by removing the mother from the sucling rats for part of each day; the undernutrition was continued after weaning till 60 days of age by restricting the daily food intake. Brain development was monitored by histologic and selected biochemical analyses coordinated with an ultrastructural morphometric analysis of the pyramidal tract of 30-day-old rats. Brain and body growth were already reduced after 10 days of undernutrition. At 20 days of age, the peak of myelination in the controls, the body and brain weights of the undernourished rats, compared to the controls, were reduced by 25 and 60%, respectively, and by the end of the study (60 days), the brain and body weights were reduced by 30 and 70%, respectively. Morphometric analysis indicated that the proportion of myelinated axons was significantly reduced in starved (34%) relative to control (43%) animals. Fiber analysis revealed that not only were the myelin sheaths thinner in the undernourished rats, but that the sheath was disproportionately reduced relative to the axon diameter. Chemical analysis on a whole brain basis demonstrated a greater than 60% deficit in the relatively myelin-specific galactolipids. (Whole brain analysis included regions more severely affected than the morphometrically analyzed pyramidal tract.) We also obtained evidence for both a delay in the initiation and a general retardation of myelinogenesis. The promyelinating fibers (axons with one or two non-compacted myelin lamellae) still constituted 4.5% of the myelinated fibers in the undernourished animals at 30 days but had declined to 0.3% in the controls. Analysis of the fabtty acids of cerebroside and sulfatide (lipids enriched in myelin) demonstrated in the undernourished group a pattern characteristic of a younger animal. Thus, the effect of undernutrition on the developing rat appears to be one of inhibited and somewhat retarded myelination. These effects were most likely due to a reduction in the number of myelinating glia formed and the restricted capacity of those which form to generate myeline lamellae. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1269208/
Abstract: The geographic epidemiology of adverse drug reactions can often help in their recognition and in pinpointing the responsible drug. Since different countries often introduce new drugs at varying periods of time and they achieve varying degrees of popularity and use, this information may sometimes aid the epidemiologist in the search for the etiology of unwanted drug effects. Some examples where geography helped unravel the story behind certain adverse drug reactions are presented. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1269146/
Abstract: Large amounts of ethylmalonic acid have been identified in urines from two patients with the vomitting sickness of Jamaica. The amounts were 178 and 882 mug per mg creatinine which are 70 and 350 times, respectively, over control values. Other short and medium chain dicarboxylic acids including glutaric and adipic acids and those with eight and ten carbon chain, saturated and cis-unsaturated, were also detected in large quantities as in the case of hypoglycin treated rats; urine. However, the large increase of urinary ethylmalonic acid in these two human cases is in a sharp contrast to the findings in hypoglycin treated rats in which urinary ethylmalonic acid increased only 3 times over control. It appears that ethylmalonic acid is produced in the cases with the vomiting sickness of Jamaica by carboxylation of n-butyryl-CoA which is not oxidized further due to the inhibition by hypoglycin A. In case of hypoglycin-treated rats, n-butyryl-CoA is mainly conjugated with glycine or deacylated to free butyric acid. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1269433/
Abstract: Saccharase-isomaltase deficiency was discovered in five children. The diagnosis was made on the basis of an abnormal oral saccharose loading response and demonstrating decreased activity of intestinal saccharase and isomaltase in the presence of normal small-intestinal mucosa. Three children failed to thrive, and all had recurrent diarrhoea. The diagnosis was made in children aged six to twenty-two months. Treatment consisted of saccharose-free diet or feeding with an enzyme preparation, Bi-Myconase. Saccharose-containing foods were increasingly tolerated beyond the second year of life so that children aged 2 1/2 to 3 1/4 years no longer required special treatment. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1269202/
Abstract: The high prevalence of intestinal parasitic infections as an index of underdevelopment, especially in tropical countries, is related to poverty, poor housing, lack of sanitation, malnutrition, and ignorance. The effects are lowered work capacity, physical and mental retardation, leading to recurrences and exacerbations of the parasitism and malnutrition. The most prevalent parasites, methods of detection by specific tests in patients in clinical trials involving antiparasitic drugs are dealt with. How and by whom investigations of new drugs should be undertaken, the need for a basic knowledge of parasitology and techniques of the discipline, of biostatistics, and use of such controls as randomized allotment to treatment groups, placebo administration, and double-blind assessments are emphasized. The justification for undertaking an evaluation of an antiparasitic drug is predicated on the demonstration of safety in exhaustive in vitro and animal studies and of the drug's potential superiority as to efficacy and lower incidence of unwanted side effects, as compared with existing agents. Tolerance and dose-range studies should be conducted in male adult hospitalized patients under close supervision. The evaluation of amebicides in clinical trials, as well as of anthelmintics, is considered in terms of differentiation and reproductive habits of specific causative agents and tests for detecting their elimination to determine improvement under drug therapy. The problem of reinfection, particuarly of nonhospitalized patients under the adverse conditions of life, is stressed. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1269207/
Abstract: Data are presented from North American and Latin American countries of the leading causes of death and death rates, demonstrating the sharp differences based on social and economic development of these respective countries. Whereas ischemic heart disease and malignant neoplasms head the list of deaths in the United States and Canada, infective and parasitic diseases of the gut, with diarrhea very common, are the principal causes of death in Latin America. Nutritional deficiency, the most important contributory cause associated with infections and diarrhea, accounts for the very high infant mortality rate in the latter countries. These pathologic conditions have a direct relationship to the degree of social and economic level of development in Latin America, and constitute a complex public health problem of enormous proportions. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1269162/
Abstract: In an area of New Guinea where there is dietary iodine deficiency, measurements of thyroid function have been made on women of child-bearing age, several of whom were pregnant at the time. The outcome of these pregnancies, and also of those occurring in the four preceding years, were examined in relation to indices of thyroid function. More stillbirths, infant deaths and endemic cretins occurred among the offspring of women who showed biochemical evidence of iodine deficiency, without clinical evidence of hypothyroidism. This situation differs from that of untreated myxoedema or congenital hypothyroidism in women, which is usually associated with altered menstrual function, infertility or repeated abortion. Mechanisms that may account for these differences and the possible implications are discussed. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1269216/
Abstract: Tocainide, a primary amine analogue of lidocaine, is effective against some experimental and clinical arrhythmias. Its pharmacokinetic behavior was studied in 6 healthy male subjects. Peak blood levels (CB max) and area under the blood concentration-time curve (AUC) were linearly related to dose with slopes of 0.0067 mcg/ml and 6 min mcg/ml per milligram of dose, respectively. Renal clearance of tocainide averaged 59 ml/min when urinary pH was uncontrolled or acidified, while it was reduced to 13 ml/min during intense sodium bicarbonate loading. Blood levels following intravenous infusion were well described by a 2-compartment open model with a volume of the central compartment of 0.92 L/kg. The t 1/2 beta was 11 hr and total body clearance was 166 ml/min. Loo-Riegelman analysis of the absorption rate did not allow unequivocal assignment of an "order" to the absorption process. Bioavailability approached 100%. Administration of drug 5 min after a test meal suppressed CB max 40% but minimally affected AUC. Approximately 50% of the drug was found to be plasma protein bound at clinically effective concentrations. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1269512/
Abstract: An approach is presented to the assessment of carcinogen risks in which the dominant effect of carcinogen exposure is life shortening and the impact falls both on those individuals who would have gotten cancer without the carcinogen exposure as well as the new cancer cases. This analysis is based on the interaction of age-specific tumor incidence rates and population survival in terms of age-specific mortality rates without the induced risk from carcinogen exposure. The analysis yields estimates for lifetime probability of developing cancer, average lifespan lost by the entire population, the average age of cancer occurrence, and the average lifespan loss of cancer cases. The approach utilizes the animal response data to assign, to the existing human cancer occurrence, and equivalent dose of the same carcinogen which is under consideration in terms of risk evaluation. The approach has the advantages of keying the estimates of carcinogen risks to those which already exist in the environment, advoiding large extrapolations from animal data, and encompassing the variability in susceptibility and carcinogen exposure in humans. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1270122/
Abstract: Sixty two adults, including forty one males (16-36 yrs.) and twenty one females (16-25 yrs.), were studied by closed circuit method as regards their B.M.R. Males showed a greater lowering of metabolism than the females when compared to MF and AD standards. The females actually showed a higher B.M.R. than the RR standards. Both the sexes had a higher basal metabolism than the value reported from other parts of the country. The difference, however, was significant only in the case of females. Winter metabolism was not sigificantly higher than the summer value in either sex, though females showed some what greater variation. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1269989/
Abstract: A new method is described for measuring the mean transit time (MTT) of digesta through the human gut in which a constant amount of marker (radio-opaque pellets) is fed to subjects with each meal over a period of weeks, and its excretion measured in the stools. The MTT measured by this method (MTT-C) has been compared with MTT measured by giving single doses of similar markers to the same subjects (MTT-S) and with the 80% transit time (80% TT). Mean values on three dietary regimes for the MTT-C (54.2 h +/- 2.5) and MTT-S (54.2 +/- 2.6) were lower than that for 80% TT (63.1 +/- 3.0). The average MTT-C in a group of six healthy young men on an ad libitum diet was 2-3 days (range 0-7-4-0). When additional dietary fibre was added to a standard diet the average MTT-C fell (in all of five subjects) from 2-4 to 1-6 days. A continuous record of MTT-C is obtained by this new method which shows wide variations from week to week even on controlled dietary intakes. Using the single dose technique, evidence is produced which suggests that the MTT-S is a more accurate and reproducible method than the 80% TT. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1270603/
Abstract: Neutrophil mobilization following administration of Pseudomonas polysaccharide was significantly reduced in malnutrition, especially during infection. The random mobility of polymorphonuclear leucocytes (PMNs) was slightly decreased in undernutrition. Chemotactic migration of PMNs was depressed and correlated more with the presence of infection than with nutritional deficiency. It is possible that these abnormalities of PMN mobilization and mobility in malnourished individuals contribute to suboptimal amount, kinetics, and pattern of tissue inflammatory response to bacteraemic challenge. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1286288/
Abstract: A sensitive and selective liquid chromatographic method to quantitate MDL 201,012 in human plasma was developed and validated. MDL 201,012 (I), diethyl-MDL 201,012 (internal standard, II) and desmethyldiol-MDL 201,012 (masking agent, III) were isolated from basified plasma (2 mL) by solid phase extraction using Bond-Elut C-18 cartridges. Endogenous components were selectively removed prior to eluting the analytes from the sorbent. Components were separated using on-line LC column switching with a cyanopropyl precolumn and a phenyl analytical column. The analytical column effluent was monitored electrochemically at a glassy carbon electrode at a potential of +1025 mV vs. Ag/AgCl. Peak-height ratios were proportional to the amount of MDL 201,012 added to plasma over the range 125-7500 pg/mL MDL 201,012. Absolute recovery of MDL 201,012 from human plasma was > 94% across the calibration range. The minimum quantitation limit was 125 pg/mL. Assay precision (%RSD) ranged from 5.2 to 13% based on the analysis of quality control standards containing 125, 250, 500, 1000, 2500, 5000 and 7500 pg/mL MDL 201,012. Corresponding assay accuracy (% relative error) was +/- 8.5%. The method has been successfully used to quantitate MDL 201,012 in samples from acute dose tolerance studies in human volunteers. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1286446/
Abstract: This descriptive study assessed the prevalence, perceptions and practices of community residents concerning three risk factors most commonly associated with coronary heart disease: smoking behaviour, hypertension and elevated blood cholesterol/dietary factors. One thousand questionnaires were randomly mailed to residents with a response rate of 48.1%. Results indicated that residents identify smoking and dietary factors as major risks for the development of heart disease. Although the prevalence of hypertension and the frequency of blood pressure screening was similar to other provincial and community surveys that investigated cardiac behaviours, differences were found with the prevalence of smoking behaviour, the frequency of blood cholesterol screening, and knowledge and practices of dietary behaviour. As a result of the study, target groups have been identified and programs have been recommended to meet community needs. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1286568/
Abstract: The nation's blood supply is safer than ever following the implementation of more restrictive donor screening and additional tests for infectious agents. As a result of the AIDS crisis, however, there is a heightened awareness that blood transfusion is not an entirely benign therapy. As blood banking practices continue to undergo close scrutiny by members of Congress, regulators, and the American public, blood banks and transfusion services are striving to communicate effectively their efforts to ensure the provision of quality blood components and services. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1286640/
Abstract: Nutritional and environmental factors are now known to affect the blood pressure and pulse rate of man. The present study investigated the effect of nicotiana tabacum on these parameters. Thirty-three male Nigerians (20-68 years) living in Calabar, Nigeria were used for this study. The subjects were treated at three different periods with snuff containing varied concentrations of Natron (0.5g and 10g/100g of snuff) and their systolic and diastolic pressures as well as pulse rate were measured at intervals of 30 minutes up to a maximum of 90 minutes. Each subject served as his own control. There were significant and time-dependent increases in the parameters measured. In addition, the increases were more marked in the absence of Natron than in its presence. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1286253/
Abstract: Following a brief overview of approaches to workplace health promotion and more specifically of health education courses the paper describes the objectives, contents and methods of a new health course for workers at elevated health risk. This course was developed as part of a comprehensive workplace intervention programme. It comprises three consecutive modules, coping with stress, nutrition, and fitness, each consisting of five 75-minute lessons. Due to intervals of several months between the modules the whole course takes about a year. Course objectives are to improve awareness of own health-related life-style, to mobilise health resources and to develop potentials for health action. Instructional methods include teaching of relevant knowledge, exchange of experience, observational tasks as well as practical exercises. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1286384/
Abstract: Objective:
        
      
      To explain the low death rates from cardiovascular disease in London. Setting:
        
      
      London and the other counties of England and Wales. Subjects:
        
      
      Women living in London during 1901-10 and people in London dying during 1968-78. Results:
        
      
      At the beginning of the twentieth century young women aged 15-34 in London had remarkably low death rates, largely because of low rates for tuberculosis and other infectious diseases and low mortality during childbirth. Their low death rates contrasted with the high rates in girls under 15 years. Conclusions:
        
      
      Large numbers of young women had migrated into London from agricultural counties in southern England and went into domestic service, where the diet was usually very good. Recent findings suggest that a mother's nutrition and health has a major effect on the risk of cardiovascular disease in the next generation. The low cardiovascular mortality in London is consistent with this, and contrasts with the high mortality from other common diseases. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1286651/
Abstract: Despite major advances in our knowledge of iron nutrition in infancy, iron deficiency remains a significant problem in the UK. The precise size of the problem is unknown, but there appears to be a higher risk amongst certain ethnic groups. Nutritional iron deficiency appears after the age of 6 months and is undoubtedly linked to inappropriate feeding practice. High bioavailability of iron in weaning foods is of paramount importance in preventing iron deficiency, whether using family foods or commercially available products, and further information about different foods and diets is needed. The long-term detrimental effect on mental development makes prevention of iron deficiency a high priority public health objective for the 1990s. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1286738/
Abstract: A controlled, randomized, double-blind, parallel-group study compared the effects of ViviScal (a new food supplement incorporating special marine extracts and a silica compound) with those of a fish extract in the treatment of young males with hereditary androgenic alopecia. The pretreatment histological diagnosis was alopecia with a mild to moderate perifollicular inflammation zone. The study consisted of 20 subjects who received two tablets of ViviScal once daily and 20 who received two tablets of fish extract once daily for 6 months. The mean patient age and mean duration and severity of baldness compared well between the two groups. Most patients had been treated with long-term topical 2% minoxidil for 1 year or more prior to the study. At baseline and after 6 months' treatment, a biopsy was taken for histological examination. A non-vellus hair count was performed at baseline and after 2, 4 and 6 months. In the fish extract treatment group three patients withdrew from the study before the fourth month due to lack of therapeutic effect. After 6 months' treatment, patients receiving ViviScal showed a mean increase in non-vellus hair of 38% compared with a 2% increase in the fish extract treatment group (P < 0.0001). In the ViviScal group, 19 (95%) subjects showed both clinical and histological cure, whereas none treated with fish extract showed any clinical or histological difference after 6 months' treatment (P < 0.0001). In both groups, a minimal decrease in the erythemal index was observed. In conclusion, ViviScal appears to be the first highly active treatment for androgenic alopecia in young males. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1286972/
Abstract: One hundred and fifteen patients with esophageal cancer underwent esophageal replacement with the stomach. The patients were divided into group A (52 patients, stomach tube, ante- or retro-sternal route) and group B (54 patients, devascularized upper half of the whole stomach, posterior mediastinal route). The post-operative complications, post operative symptoms and nutritional status were investigated in both groups. Lung complications tended to occur more frequently in group A (28.8% versus 22.2%), showing no significant difference. The incidence of other complications did not show a remarkable difference between either group except for leakage at the site of anastomosis. Major leakage occurred in 11.5% and 5.6%, and minor leakage in 30.8% and 18.5%, respectively. Postprandial fullness, nausea, heart burn and diarrhea were found to be somewhat higher in Group B. Change of oral intake, body weight and other indices of nutritional status were investigated and compared with pre- operative data. The amount of oral intake and levels of serum albumin was higher in group B than in group A between one and 12 months. These results demonstrate the superiority of the devascularized upper half of the whole stomach as an esophageal substitute. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1287018/
Abstract: The decrease of Somatomedin-C (SM-C) plasma levels has been recently proposed as an index of acute malnutrition in critically ill patients. In this study SM-C values were determined before surgery for coronary revascularization, on the 2nd and 5th postoperative day. Twenty-four patients were admitted to the study; most of them (16 cases; 66%) presented with an increase of SM-C levels after surgery unlike 8 patients who showed unchanged or decreased levels. Multivariated analysis was applied to the factors that may affect SM-C values. SM-C significantly related to the Modified Predictive Nutritional Index, which was calculated prior to surgery, while no significant relationship was observed with patient age and type of oxygenator. No sign of liver damage was observed, so we concluded that decreased and, perhaps, unchanged SM-C levels after coronary revascularization were probably caused by acute nutritional deficiency. The incidence of this finding was remarkably high (33%) in spite of the absence of apparent malnutrition before surgery. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1287221/
Abstract: Nutrition interventions with cancer patients may produce benefits beyond those typically evaluated, such as increased appetite, food intake, and weight gain. Other benefits include enhanced mood, improved sense of well-being, and increased socialization because of an increased ability to eat in public or with family. Along with the target benefits of nutrition interventions, these "untargeted" benefits have come to be clustered under the general rubric of health-related quality of life. All medical treatments, including nutrition interventions, can be evaluated in terms of their total effect upon health-related quality of life. However, demonstrating health outcome benefits of nutrition interventions can be very difficult. This difficulty is at two levels: conceptual and practical. Conceptual difficulties can be overcome by refining and clarifying the definition and measurement of health-related quality of life. Practical difficulties are more diverse and must be tackled on a point-by-point basis, depending upon the unique characteristics of the disease being treated, the intervention being tested, and the context of the trial. This paper offers some guidelines and recommendations for overcoming many of the more commonly confronted barriers to successful demonstration of health outcome benefits from clinical nutrition trials with cancer patients. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1287222/
Abstract: Many studies have assessed the benefits of nutrition support in cancer patients. Except for studies directed at the treatment of severe malnutrition, most clinical trials have failed. Although prospective randomized controlled clinical trials (Phase III) remain the most reliable means of evaluating the efficacy of therapy, the available literature reports only results from small trials (Phase II to III), most of which appear to be contradictory and none of which conclusively answer the question being considered. To address this gap in knowledge, tools such as meta-analysis have been adapted from the field of statistics. Meta-analysis involves pooling results across several studies and provides a more precise estimate of treatment effect than can each individual study. However, clinical trials selected for meta-analysis, although broadly similar, can differ significantly in terms of therapies used and clinical populations studied. Major cancer types with differing effects on food intake and malnutrition (eg, the mechanical obstruction in head and neck cancer vs the cytokine-induced metastases associated with lung, ovarian, colon, and breast cancer) cannot be subject to the same analytic criteria. In this paper, the current state of clinical outcome trials in nutrition and cancer is examined, and the desired design for future studies is proposed. Research priorities include the conduct of Phase II clinical trials that use as outcome measures quality of life, performance status, and survival to identify optimal cancer-specific and patient-specific nutrition support. The next round of Phase III efficacy studies should establish the appropriate use of nutrition support in cancer therapy. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1287195/
Abstract: Five absorption rate models have been compared for describing cefetamet data in 34 adults after oral administration of cefetamet pivoxil with food alone or in combination with either an antacid or an H2 antagonist. A sequential zero- then first-order input process provided the most flexible description of the absorption rate of cefetamet. If the first-order rate constant is linked to the zero-order input parameters the model can be interpreted as the consequence of solubility-limited absorption. While a sequential input is theoretically reasonable to assume, the first-order process appeared to be independent of the zero-order input. A population-based approach was applied to estimate the effect of dose and gastric pH increase on absorption and disposition. There appeared to be a dose-associated change in several parameters. The most marked change was an increase in volume of distribution of cefetamet. Treatments expected to increase gastric pH slowed the first-order component of the absorption process. Three models for estimating the extent of bioavailability have been compared using observations from 18 adults and 13 children receiving iv cefetamet and oral cefetamet pivoxil on two separate occasions. The most consistent estimates of the disposition parameters and the extent of bioavailability were achieved with the sequential zero- and first-order model under the assumption that steady state volume of distribution and nonrenal clearance were the same after iv and oral treatment. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1287223/
Abstract: There is, at present, considerable interest in the possible role for the proinflammatory cytokines, tumor necrosis factor-alpha, interleukin-1, interleukin-6, and interferon-gamma in the pathogenesis of cancer cachexia. Indirect evidence for such a role is based on the observation that chronic administration of many of these cytokines, either alone or in combination, can reproduce the myriad of host responses seen in experimental and human cancer cachexia. Elevated plasma levels of tumor necrosis factor-alpha, interleukin-2, and interferon-gamma have rarely been detected in patients or experimental animals with cancer, although interleukin-6 levels appear to correlate with tumor progression in animal models. The strongest evidence for a causal role for cytokines has come from rodent studies in which tumor-bearing animals have been passively immunized with antibodies directed against individual cytokines. Several groups have shown modest but significant improvements in food intake and lean tissue retention with antibodies directed against tumor necrosis factor-alpha, interleukin-1, interleukin-6, and interferon-gamma. However, there has been no consistent finding that one cytokine is universally involved in cancer cachexia in histologically distinct tumor models. One ominous finding in several tumor models has been that the endogenous production of cytokines appears to support tumor growth. Such findings raise the intriguing possibility that these cytokines, although contributors to tissue wasting and anorexia, may also serve the tumor as either direct or indirect cell growth factors.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS) 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1287226/
Abstract: Many common metastatic cancers are associated with marked weight loss at the time of diagnosis. Anorexia clearly plays a major role in weight loss in the cancer patient, but cannot explain all of the weight loss noted. Malnourished patients with localized cancers under metabolic ward conditions fail to gain weight when given apparently adequate calories for anabolism, thus suggesting that these patients are hypermetabolic. Increased whole body protein breakdown, increased lipolysis, and increased gluconeogenesis have been repeatedly demonstrated in malnourished cancer patients. Protein and glucose metabolism are closely linked, and both are regulated by a number of the same hormones and metabolites. For example, when increased glucose production in malnourished cancer patients is inhibited pharmacologically, protein catabolism is proportionally decreased. Studies of glucose, growth hormone, cortisol, and insulin secretion following an oral glucose load in well-nourished cancer patients are consistent with insulin resistance but no other hormonal abnormalities. Malnourished cancer patients have elevated levels of growth hormone that are further stimulated by arginine and insulin infusion. No abnormalities of thyroid function were noted in cancer patients. Current studies are underway to determine the mechanisms and effects of progestational steroids and cytokines on both food intake and intermediary lipid metabolism. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1287220/
Abstract: Cancer patients have the highest incidence of protein-calorie malnutrition seen in hospitalized patients, with significant malnutrition occurring in more than 30% of cancer patients undergoing major upper gastrointestinal procedures. Clinically significant malnutrition occurs as a result of diminished nutrient intake, increased nutrient losses, and tumor-induced derangements in host metabolism. In the absence of adequate exogenous nutrients, the body utilizes endogenous substrates to satisfy the ongoing requirements of both host and tumor for energy and protein. In those patients with malignant obstruction of the gastrointestinal tract, the tumor itself may induce diminished nutrient intake. Present day treatment modalities including gastrointestinal resection, chemotherapy, and radiotherapy compound these metabolic derangements, further increasing the risk of postoperative morbidity and death. The presence of malnutrition in cancer patients has prognostic importance. In a review of more than 3000 cancer patients, DeWys and colleagues identified significantly improved survival in those patients without weight loss compared with those had lost 6% of their body weight (Am J Med 69:491-497, 1980). Other investigators have noted increased postoperative morbidity and mortality associated with malnutrition. Early hypotheses suggested that reversal of weight loss would improve survival. The development and refinements of enteral and parenteral nutrition have provided the opportunity for studying the relationship between nutritional supplementation and postoperative prognosis. Nutrition support is therefore often instituted to improve nutritional status and thereby reduce the risks of postoperative complications. This article addresses the beneficial role of preoperative nutrition therapy in cancer patients. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1287231/
Abstract: The endpoints used as outcome variables in clinical cancer treatment trials, including nutrition intervention studies, should contain items that are meaningful to the patient. Variables to consider are appetite, food intake, physical performance, psychological and social functioning, response to cancer therapies, survival time, nutrition status, associated morbidity, and costs. Ideally, the design and conduct of nutrition trials should be carried out by a multidisciplinary team comprising medical oncologists, physician specialists in nutrition, dietitians, and social scientists. Anorexia has not been a focus of nutrition support trials in the past partly because of the lack of effective strategies to reverse it. Anorexia is one important cause of cancer starvation, and it also causes patient discomfort. This paper describes outcome variables that include patient derived subjective factors such as anorexia, and outlines new strategies to reverse anorexia. Pharmacologic strategies tested to reverse anorexia include corticosteroids, anabolic steroids, cyproheptadine, hydrazine sulfate, cannabinoids, and megestrol acetate. Of these, only the latter has been consistently well tolerated and effective, with significant improvements in appetite and food intake demonstrated in large-scale, randomized, controlled trials involving more than 600 cancer patients. Dose-response studies have demonstrated increasing efficacy with increasing doses of megestrol acetate from 160 to 800 mg/day. Doses in excess of 800 mg/day are not currently recommended. The mechanisms of action of megestrol acetate involve both behavioral and metabolic effects, and its impact on energy expenditure, appetite, body composition, endocrine function, and lipid metabolism is the subject of ongoing research.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS) 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1296550/
Abstract: Many epidemiological and experimental studies have confirmed the continuous positive relationship between serum cholesterol levels and coronary risk. Therapeutic trials have demonstrated that the lowering of serum cholesterol by diet or drugs can lower this coronary risk. The benefits have been shown in men and women, the young and old, in those with a high coronary risk due to raised serum cholesterol and LDL and those with only moderately increased risk. In addition, therapeutic interventions on serum cholesterol are cost-effective. These observations more than justify the present national program of lowering the serum cholesterol. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1296763/
Abstract: The effects of three dietary phosphorus concentrations on magnesium balance in very low birth weight (VLBW) infants were measured. The infants consumed one of three special formulas for 20 consecutive days. Magnesium balance was calculated by measuring food intake, urinary magnesium and fecal magnesium. The highest dietary phosphorus concentration resulted in a higher (P < 0.05) fecal loss of magnesium. Net absorption and net retention of magnesium were lower (P < 0.10) in the high phosphorus group. A modest (33 per cent) increase in dietary phosphorus resulted in a decrease in magnesium absorption in VLBW infants. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1296767/
Abstract: Magnesium is an essential cofactor for many enzymatic reactions, especially those involved in energy metabolism. Deficits of magnesium are prevalent due to inadequate intake or malabsorption and due to the renal loss of magnesium that occurs in certain disease states (alcoholism, diabetes) and with drug therapy (diuretics, aminoglycosides, cisplatin, digoxin, cyclosporin, amphotericin B). Protracted deficits of magnesium in humans and animals result in neurological disturbances, including hyperexcitability, convulsions and various psychiatric symptoms ranging from apathy to psychosis, some of which can be reversed with magnesium supplementation, others requiring correction of the dysregulation mechanism. Although the role of magnesium in neuronal function is not completely understood, a lowering of CSF or brain magnesium can induce epileptiform activity and there is an association between decreased CSF magnesium and the development of seizures. CSF concentrations of magnesium are normally higher than magnesium plasma ultrafiltrate (diffusible) concentrations due to the active transport of magnesium across the blood-brain barrier. Under conditions of magnesium deficiency, CSF concentrations decline, although this decline lags behind and is less pronounced than the changes observed in plasma magnesium concentrations. Decreases in CSF magnesium concentrations correlate with the alterations observed in extracellular brain magnesium concentrations in animals following the dietary deprivation of magnesium. CSF magnesium concentrations can readily be repleted following magnesium supplementation, although high dose magnesium therapy, such as that used in the treatment of convulsions in eclampsia, will only increase CSF magnesium concentrations to a very limited degree (approximately 11-18 per cent) above physiological concentrations. Greater increases in CSF magnesium may occur in neonates since neonatal swine, following treatment with magnesium, have CSF magnesium concentrations that are similar to their plasma concentrations. There has been a recent resurgence of interest in magnesium deficiency and its neurological consequences due to the finding that magnesium, at physiological concentrations, blocks N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors in neurones. NMDA receptors are normally activated by glutamate and/or aspartate which represent the principal neurotransmitters for excitatory synaptic transmission in vertebrate CNS. Magnesium deficiency produces epileptiform activity in the CNS which can be blocked by NMDA receptor antagonists. Other mechanisms, including alterations in Na+/K(+)-ATPase activity, cAMP/cGMP concentrations and calcium currents in pre- and postsynaptic membranes, may also be at least partially responsible for the neuronal effects associated with low brain magnesium. Further studies are necessary to increase our understanding of the neurological implications of magnesium deficit in the central nervous system. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1296764/
Abstract: A reverse relationship was found between the magnesium content of drinking water, ie. an adequate supply of highly available dietary magnesium, and the occurrence of preeclampsia. Where various parts of a settlement receive their drinking water from different sources (for example, surface water or well water) there may be an important difference in the level of magnesium supply to different population groups. In the population studied here, the occurrence of preeclampsia varied pari passu with the magnesium content of the drinking water in different parts of the city. The results show that during pregnancy the magnesium content of serum and erythrocytes decreases. This decrease may be prevented by magnesium therapy, which lowers the incidence of preeclampsia. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1296545/
Abstract: Experimental studies have shown the regression of atherosclerosis in animals given a cholesterol-rich diet and then given a normal diet or hypolipidemic therapy. Despite favourable results of clinical trials of primary prevention modifying the lipid profile, the concept of atherosclerosis regression in man remains very controversial. The methodological approach is difficult: this is based on angiographic data and requires strict standardisation of angiographic views and reliable quantitative techniques of analysis which are available with image processing. Several methodologically acceptable clinical coronary studies have shown not only stabilisation but also regression of atherosclerotic lesions with reductions of about 25% in total cholesterol levels and of about 40% in LDL cholesterol levels. These reductions were obtained either by drugs as in CLAS (Cholesterol Lowering Atherosclerosis Study), FATS (Familial Atherosclerosis Treatment Study) and SCOR (Specialized Center of Research Intervention Trial), by profound modifications in dietary habits as in the Lifestyle Heart Trial, or by surgery (ileo-caecal bypass) as in POSCH (Program On the Surgical Control of the Hyperlipidemias). On the other hand, trials with non-lipid lowering drugs such as the calcium antagonists (INTACT, MHIS) have not shown significant regression of existing atherosclerotic lesions but only a decrease on the number of new lesions. The clinical benefits of these regression studies are difficult to demonstrate given the limited period of observation, relatively small population numbers and the fact that in some cases the subjects were asymptomatic. The decrease in the number of cardiovascular events therefore seems relatively modest and concerns essentially subjects who were symptomatic initially. The clinical repercussion of studies of prevention involving a single lipid factor is probably partially due to the reduction in progression and anatomical regression of the atherosclerotic plaque.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS) 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1296547/
Abstract: Serum cholesterol intervention studies have been mainly performed in middle-aged men. Is the extrapolation of these results to men aged 20 to 30 years justified? Atherosclerosis is a process which continues throughout life. It is clear that increased serum cholesterol levels are associated with a higher coronary risk. In addition, serum cholesterol levels increase with age up to 60 years old. Do young men obtain the same benefits from medical intervention as older men? Therapeutic trials have been performed in middle-aged men. The increase in life expectancy associated with a 6.7% lowering of the serum cholesterol by life-long dietary restrictions would only be 4 months in 20 year old subjects at high risk (hypertension, smokers, low HDL cholesterol). With a 20% reduction in serum cholesterol, the gain would be 12 months. There is no reason for not extrapolating acquired data in the over 30s to 20 to 30 year old subjects. Due to the fact that young subjects are exposed to the risk for longer periods, it is advisable to treat their hypercholesterolaemia even more seriously than that of older patients. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1296766/
Abstract: The proposed aetiologies of multiple sclerosis (MS) have included immunological mechanisms, genetic factors, virus infection and direct or indirect action of minerals and/or metals. The processes of these aetiologies have implicated magnesium. Magnesium and zinc have been shown to be decreased in central nervous system (CNS) tissues of MS patients, especially tissues such as white matter where pathological changes have been observed. The calcium content of white matter has also been found to be decreased in MS patients. The interactions of minerals and/or metals such as calcium, magnesium, aluminium and zinc have also been evaluated in CNS tissues of experimental animal models. These data suggest that these elements are regulated by pooling of minerals and/or metals in bones. Biological actions of magnesium may affect the maintenance and function of nerve cells as well as the proliferation and synthesis of lymphocytes. A magnesium deficit may induce dysfunction of nerve cells or lymphocytes directly and/or indirectly, and thus magnesium depletion may be implicated in the aetiology of MS. The action of zinc helps to prevent virus infection, and zinc deficiency in CNS tissues of MS patients may also be relevant to its aetiology. Magnesium interacts with other minerals and/or metals such as calcium, zinc and aluminium in biological systems, affecting the immune system and influencing the content of these elements in CNS tissues. Because of these interactions, a magnesium deficit could also be a risk factor in the aetiology of MS. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1296855/
Abstract: The role of selenium concerning its biological effects particularly in relation to cardiovascular and tumor diseases has been in the focus of intensive studies. Selenium is a constituent part of the enzyme glutathion peroxidase (E.C.1.11.1.9) which catalyzes the conversion of hydrogen peroxide and organic hydroperoxides into water and corresponding alcohols. A review of epidemiological studies is presented focusing predominantly on countries where a low concentration of selenium in blood serum was found. The role of selenium in the etiology of cardiovascular diseases may probably be accounted for by its protective effect as it prevents platelet aggregation and protects the arterial endothelium from being damaged by lipid peroxides. The results of experimental studies, carried out in research institutes in many parts of the world, suggest that coordinated supplementation of food with selenium may reduce the risk of cancer and moreover, the effect of selenium can be modified by other dietary factors, such as vitamin A and E. (Fig. 2, Ref. 29.) 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1296789/
Abstract: As part of a population-base study of risk factors for heart disease, we aimed to establish the prevalence of smoking and to identify associations between smoking and other risk factors in Australian Aborigines (n = 306) and persons of European descent (n = 553) in two country towns. Smoking prevalence was first analysed as a dichotomy (current smokers compared with nonsmokers), and according to three levels of exposure (< 10, 10-20 and > 20 cigarettes per day), and two levels of nonexposure (never and former smoker). Other behavioural, biochemical and physical variables were included in multivariable analyses. Of the Aborigines, 64.4 per cent (95 per cent confidence interval (CI) 59.0 per cent to 69.8 per cent) were current cigarette smokers, compared with 22.8 per cent of non-Aborigines (CI 19.3 per cent to 26.3 per cent). For persons aged 13 to 54 years, using the five categories of exposure, smoking in Aborigines again far exceeded that in non-Aborigines in all age groups (for males chi 2 = 72.8, for females chi 2 = 94.6, 4 df, P = < 0.0001 for both sexes). In non-Aboriginal females, the highest prevalence was in the youngest group (56 per cent of those aged 13 to 17 years). Food habit was associated with smoking. Subjects who ate meat without trimming the fat were more likely to smoke. In Australian country towns, Aborigines and all young women need smoking cessation programs. The nutritional status of smokers requires further study. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1296888/
Abstract: This paper provides an historical documentation and discussion of events that have influenced diabetes nutritional management in recent years. Many factors have shaped the nutrition care that persons with diabetes receive today. Nutrition science research is part of the history, as are myriad discoveries, research, advanced technologies, and evolving health care systems. This review of the past four decades will contribute a perspective of how we have gotten to where we are today. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1296781/
Abstract: The aetiology of diabetes mellitus is reviewed in the light of Australian epidemiological studies. The prevalence of diabetes has been studied in a wide variety of Australian settings. Comparisons of prevalences in Aborigines and other populations suggest that occurrence of this disease has both genetic and environmental determinants. Diet and obesity are associated with diabetes, but to increase physical exercise may be the most feasible intervention. Public health approaches are discussed. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1296889/
Abstract: A study was conducted to investigate both the perceived and actual knowledge of diet by 101 individuals with non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (NIDDM). A survey instrument was developed containing three sections: perceptions of diet knowledge, demonstrated knowledge of diet, and demographic information. Perceived and actual knowledge of diet in the study group were compared with the following variables: years of education, types of diabetes regimen, participation in care, recency of dietary instruction, understanding of diet, and levels of self blood glucose monitoring (SBGM). Analysis indicated significant differences for knowledge and levels of education, perceptions and knowledge and recency of instruction, perceptions and knowledge and understanding of diet, and perceptions and self blood glucose monitoring. A positive linear relationship was noted between perceptions and actual knowledge of the diabetic diet. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1296892/
Abstract: The effect of a nutrition education program on knowledge and self-care behavior in a group of individuals with diabetes was evaluated. The nutrition education program was developed using outlines and knowledge tests produced by the University of Michigan Diabetes Research and Training Center. The program, sponsored by the American Diabetes Association, Akron Chapter, was presented free of charge to Northeast Ohio area residents. Forty-four individuals participated in the study. Results indicated a statistically significant (p < 0.01) gain in knowledge but no statistically significant change in eating behavior for the sample. However, post-food records indicated that the mean for the percentage of total kcalories (kcals) from protein and fat (ie, 20% and 28%, respectively) were within the American Diabetes Association's recommendations of no more than 20% of kcals from protein and 30% of kcals from fat. In addition, the percentage of kcals from carbohydrate and the recommended total number of kcals improved toward the recommended levels. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1296899/
Abstract: Hypoglycemia in patients with diabetes was treated by a standardized protocol in a 300-bed community hospital. Patient outcomes were studied retrospectively using data from medical records. Hypoglycemia was defined as a blood glucose level below 80 mg/dL when symptoms were present, or 60 mg/dL regardless of symptoms. Treatment consisted of 20 grams of fast-acting carbohydrate repeated every 15 minutes until the blood glucose level was above 80 mg/dL. The blood glucose level was then rechecked one hour after treatment. Data from 179 episodes were evaluated. In 153 (85%) cases, the blood glucose levels were within the target range (80-200 mg/dL) at the conclusion of treatment. In 135 (76%) cases, the blood glucose level at one hour following treatment was within the same target range. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1296890/
Abstract: A primary goal of treatment in obese individuals with NIDDM is weight loss and maintenance. Obesity is a precipitating factor for the development of NIDDM in individuals who are genetically at risk. A variety of weight-loss regimens are available to match the specific needs and lifestyles of individuals. Hypocaloric high-fiber diets have been found to be effective in achieving weight loss, as well as aiding in glycemic and lipid control. Very low calorie diets, administered under medical supervision, are useful for obese NIDDM patients with 18-55 kilograms of weight to lose. Lifestyle education appears to be an important element of any successful weight loss program. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1296893/
Abstract: Most patients with diabetes generally do not require routine vitamin and mineral supplementation, just like the rest of the population. However, based on the published medical literature, it would appear that some degree of supplementation with certain vitamins (eg, vitamins C and E) and minerals (eg, magnesium) may be worthwhile and become more commonly recommended in the future. The role of vitamins and minerals in controlling blood glucose levels in the patients with diabetes also is discussed. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1296903/
Abstract: The long-term complications of diabetes can have a devastating effect on an individual's self-esteem and outlook on life. Some preliminary studies have suggested that normalization of blood glucose levels may prevent or reverse the complications of diabetes in some individuals. Nutrition and diabetes meal planning play a critical role toward achieving this normalization. It is our job as diabetes educators to fully assess a patient's eating and life-style habits, as well as to recognize any complications from diabetes that the patient may be coping with at this time. Depending on the type of complication, diet alterations may need to be made to meet the patient's current needs, ie, reducing fiber content of the diet temporarily in patients with mild gastroparesis, or increasing the protein content of the diet in patients with nephropathy and a foot ulcer. By setting positive, attainable goals, the individual with diabetes may lead a healthier, more productive life in which the complications from diabetes can be prevented, reduced, or better tolerated. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1296937/
Abstract: In the hospital of the International Centre for Diarrhoeal Disease Research, Bangladesh, the Child Health Programme (CHP) has been offering preventive health care services to about 60,000 patients per year. The patient populations are mostly children who stay with their mothers or other relatives. In this programme, health education, immunisation and nutrition rehabilitation services are offered. Health education is offered as group discussion and face-to-face interaction between the educator and the mother. Immunisation is offered daily from 0700h to 1900h to all children and women attending the hospital. Nutrition rehabilitation services, both inpatient and outpatient, are offered to severely undernourished children. These preventive services are implemented by health workers and health assistants. All attendants and adult patients participate in health education sessions. More than 80% of unimmunized children and 50% of unimmunized women receive immunisation. The experience of the CHP shows that it is possible to offer different preventive health care services to all attendants and patients attending a busy hospital. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1296935/
Abstract: Until 1979, diarrhoeal disease accounted for roughly half of all infant and childhood deaths in Egypt, partly because curative care was largely inappropriate. The National Control of Diarrhoeal Diseases Project (NCDDP) addressed this problem from 1982 to 1991. Since 1979 many aspects of diarrhoeal disease in Egypt have been addressed in many studies. This paper reviews that literature, finding considerable improvements in case management, particularly in the use of oral rehydration solution and in feeding during diarrhoeal episodes. This is due primarily to the NCDDP. At the same time diarrhoeal mortality declined rapidly, both absolutely and as a percentage of total mortality. Persistent diarrhoeas, which have become an increasing proportion of the remaining mortality, have not been satisfactorily addressed, and irrational treatment with drugs remains a major problem. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1307381/
Abstract: Fetal growth is known to be correlated with the size of the placenta and the exchange surface area. Reduction in the growth of the materno-fetal exchange surface areas may be a mechanism by which the effects of maternal undernutrition on fetal growth are mediated. In the compact placenta of the guinea pig the exchange surface is equivalent to the peripheral labyrinth. The effect of a 40% reduction in maternal feed intake on the growth of the peripheral labyrinth was investigated in pregnant guinea pigs between gestational days 25 and 65. Fetal and placental weights were significantly reduced in the last trimester by 32% and 38% respectively (P < 0.01). Placental efficiency in early gestation was significantly impaired in restricted animals but equivalent to ad lib. fed controls by the last trimester. The volume of the peripheral labyrinth increased as a percentage of the total placental volume with gestational age. Restricted placentae tended to be composed of a smaller volume of peripheral labyrinth tissue in early gestation. It is suggested that maternal undernutrition results in an impaired or delayed expansion of the peripheral labyrinth in early gestation causing a reduction in placental efficiency. By the last trimester the weight of the peripheral labyrinth of restricted animals was reduced by 33% (P < 0.05). The weight of the peripheral labyrinth was also significantly correlated with fetal weight is limited by the size of the peripheral labyrinth in the later stages of gestation. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1307290/
Abstract: Daily urine urea nitrogen (UUN) and total urine nitrogen output (TUNO) concentrations were measured in 19 patients undergoing G-I surgery during the perioperative period of 114 days. The results showed that there was a strong correlation between UUN and TUNO in statistic regression analysis. A formula is worked out TUNO = UUN + 0.7 which is of great value in estimating the nitrogen balance of TPN patients. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1307336/
Abstract: Seventy-seven patients developed gastroenteric fistula as a complication of abdominal trauma, including small bowl fistula (25), duodenal fistula (17), colonic fistula (16), pancreatic fistula (3), gastric fistula (2), and multiple fistula (14). These patients accounted for 15.9% (77/483) of all patients with intestinal fistula treated in the same period in our department. An average of 8.8 days had elapsed before the final diagnosis of GI fistula was made, during which 73 patients had 1-8 kinds of complications, 48 received 1-5 operations, and 67 were given nutritional support for 6 to 254 days. Thirty patients were cured operatively and 33 (52.4%) spontaneously. The mortality was 18.2%. The etiology, principles of prevention, and management of traumatic intestinal fistula were discussed with emphasis on effective nutritional support and intraabdominal drainage. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1307421/
Abstract: Nutritional status was assessed in 151 middle-class healthy adult individuals (69 medical students, 18-29 y, 34 males, 35 females); 48 university personnel, 30-49 y, 24 males, 24 females; and their older relatives, 34 subjects, 50-79 y, 19 males, 15 females) living in Botucatu, S. Paulo. Methods included anthropometric measurements, energy and protein intakes, blood biochemical analyses and cutaneous delayed hypersensitivity tests. Anthropometric measurements showed higher values in men, with the exception of the triceps skinfold thickness (higher in women) and of the arm fat area (higher in the older age female groups); aging seemed to be associated with increases of weight, arm muscle variables and with arm fat accumulation in women and with increases of arm muscle variables in men. The values for anthropometric measurements were in general higher than those found in other Brazilian studies; on the other hand, they approximate to but do not entirely agree with the data representative of the international referential adult population: differences were mainly concerned with body weight and upper arm muscle parameters, which were lower in our sample. As regards energy intake, values found in subjects under 50 years of age were lower than the recommended dietary allowances; averages found for protein intake were above the level recommended by WHO/FAO/UNU (1985). The mean values for serum proteins and lipids were similar to those of referential data. As regards the hypersensitivity tests, it was found that none of the individuals challenged with four antigens (PPD, Candidin, Vaccinia and phytohemagglutinin) presented less than two positive skin reactions.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS) 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1307418/
Abstract: The calcium-intake relationship with other alimentary and anthropometric variables was investigates in a group of 60 adult (19-75 year-old) subjects, 50 females and 10 males, with essential arterial hypertension (DAP > 90 mmHg). The calcium intake was assessed by three different protocols: 24-hour food intake recall, food-frequency questionnaire and 3 day self-food intake register, repeated along with anthropometric measurements on three different occasions (2-15 month-intervals). The calcium intake assessed by the three methods, as well as the anthropometric data, were statistically similar on all three occasions. The mean data were then compared with those form the control, composed of 75 healthy subjects matched with the hypertensive group by age and sex. The patients ingested less calcium (mean +/- SD) than the controls on the daily (517 +/- 271 x 740 +/- 353 mg/d) and body-weight (8.1 +/- 5.0 x 11.4 +/- 5.9 mg/kg/d) basis. Among the males the calcium intake was the only difference found between groups and could be attributed to the lower intake of calcium-rich foods. The hypertensive females showed also higher lean-body mass (Body-mass index and arm muscle circumference). Thus the calcium intake discriminated both groups being associated with changes in other nutritional parameters only in females. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1307234/
Abstract: Background:
        
      
      The risk of recurrent neural-tube defects is decreased in women who take folic acid or multivitamins containing such during the periconceptional period. The extent to which folic acid supplementation can reduce the first occurrence of defects is not known. Methods:
        
      
      We conducted a randomized, controlled trial of periconceptional multivitamin supplementation to test the efficacy of this treatment in reducing the incidence of a first occurrence of neural-tube defects. Women planning a pregnancy (in most cases their first) were randomly assigned to receive a single tablet of a vitamin supplement (containing 12 vitamins, including 0.8 mg of folic acid; 4 minerals; and 3 trace elements) or a trace-element supplement (containing copper, manganese, zinc, and a very low dose of vitamin C) daily for at least one month before conception and until the date of the second missed menstrual period or later. Results:
        
      
      Pregnancy was confirmed in 4753 women. The outcome of the pregnancy (whether the fetus or infant had a neural-tube defect or congenital malformation) was known in 2104 women who received the vitamin supplement and in 2052 who received the trace-element supplement. Congenital malformations were significantly more prevalent in the group receiving the trace-element supplement than in the vitamin-supplement group (22.9 per 1000 vs. 13.3 per 1000, P = 0.02). There were six cases of neural-tube defects in the group receiving the trace-element supplement, as compared with none in the vitamin-supplement group (P = 0.029). The prevalence of cleft lip with or without cleft palate was not reduced by periconceptional vitamin supplementation. Conclusions:
        
      
      Periconceptional vitamin use decreases the incidence of a first occurrence of neural-tube defects. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1307382/
Abstract: The insulin-like growth factors (IGF-I and -II) are potential mediators of the effects of maternal undernutrition on fetal growth and muscle development. The effects of a 40% reduction in maternal feed intake on serum levels of the IGFs, the thyroid hormones and cortisol, were investigated for the last two trimesters (day 25 to birth). This level of undernutrition is known to cause a 35% reduction in fetal and placental weights, and a 20-25% reduction in muscle fibre number. Maternal IGF-I level was greater than non-pregnant levels on day 25 gestation, in both control and restricted dams, and declined with gestational age. The increase in IGF-I level in the 40% restricted group was approximately two-thirds that of control animals. Fetal serum IGF-I was also reduced in undernourished fetuses throughout gestation. Maternal IGF-II did not change with gestational age and was unaffected by undernutrition. Fetal IGF-II reached a peak at day 55 of gestation, this peak was greatly diminished by maternal feed restriction. Both IGF-I and IGF-II tended to be related to fetal, placental and muscle weights at day 65 of gestation. Thyroid hormone concentration declined in maternal serum and increased in fetal serum with increasing gestational age. Levels were not significantly affected by undernutrition. Both triiodothyronine (T3) and thyroxine (T4) were correlated with IGF-I in maternal serum (P < 0.05), but not in fetal serum. Cortisol levels were elevated by undernutrition in both maternal and fetal serum, and increased with gestational age. Cortisol was inversely correlated with serum IGF-I in both maternal and fetal serum. Maternal serum IGF-I may mediate the effects of undernutrition on fetal growth by affecting the growth and establishment of the feto-placental unit in mid-gestation. Fetal IGF-I may mediate the effects on muscle growth, whereas IGF-II seems to be related to hepatic glycogen deposition. Cortisol may play a role via its effect on the IGFs, but the thyroid hormones are unlikely to be important until the late gestation/early postnatal period. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1307270/
Abstract: We compared the efficacy of a single dose of ivermectin with that of a standard course of deithylcarbamazine (DEC) for the control of microfilaremia in 60 patients with banrroftian filariasis who had developed recurrent microfilaremia after each of three or more prior treatments with DEC. The study was done as a randomized, double-blind trial. Complete, but transient clearance of microfilaremia was observed in both treatment groups. One year later, recurrent microfilaremia was present in 7 patients treated with ivermectin and in 5 treated with DEC. Pretreatment levels of microfilaremia were significantly higher in patients who relapsed within one year after treatment than in those who remained amicrofilaremia. Side effects of either treatment were common but mild. Febrile reactions were more frequent in the ivermectin group: while localized reactions consistent with a flare up of acute filarial disease occurred mostly in the DEC group. We conclude that ivermectin is an effective and practical alternative to DEC for treatment of recurrent microfilaremia due to bancroftian filariasis. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1307431/
Abstract: The relationship between asymptomatic shedding of bacterial enteropathogens and the hygiene habits of families who have had a child with typhoid fever (TF) are investigated. The sample was made up of 80 families: 40 families in which one child had had TF (Group A) and 40 in which no children or either of the parents had had a history of TF (Group B). In each group 20 families belonged to a low socioeconomic status (SES) and 20 to a high SES. A structured interview was used to evaluate the SES and the hygiene habits of the child; observations were made to measure the hygiene habits of the family (toilet, kitchen and food preparation) and bacteriological studies (fecal samples and hand markers). Results show that carriers were more frequent in Group A than in Group B. The bacterial species found were significantly more numerous in Group A than in Group B (fecal samples: E. coli, the classic serotypes, Shigella ssp, and hand markers: E. coli). Families of Group A had higher carriage rates than those of Group B. Finally there exists a significantly higher association between inadequate hygiene habits and carrier families. These results show the need to teach specific habits of proper hygiene to the entire population, because the fact of belonging to the high SES does not in itself preclude inadequate hygiene habits. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1307618/
Abstract: Recent developments in laboratory techniques have brought dramatic changes in medical diagnosis, that is, a change from physical diagnosis to laboratory diagnosis. It is imperative that laboratory medicine develop further to meet the continuously growing needs of medical care. Major progress in medical care is classified into two categories, (A) treatment of severe disorders by modern technology and (B) health maintenance to prevent disease and achieve a higher quality of life. In this symposium, category (A) is subdivided in to (A-1) development of new drugs and (A-2) organ transplantation. In (A-1) the field of new drugs, "Recent Trends in Granulocyte Colony Stimulating Factor Therapy and its Relation to Clinical Laboratory Tests" is reviewed as an example of applying recombinant peptides to treatment. In (A-2) transplantation, two papers (A-2a) "Effect of HLA Matching in Renal Transplantation" and (A-2b) "Liver Transplantation and Function of the Graft Liver" are reported. In category (B), health maintenance, (B-1) exercise and (B-2) nutrition are important subjects. (B-1a) "The Role of Clinical Laboratory Examinations During Physical Exercise Therapy for Diabetes Mellitus" and (B-1b) "Exercise Loading Test for Evaluating Cardio-Pulmonary Functions" are given attention. In (B-2) nutrition, artificial feeding, such as intravenous hyperalimentation (IVH) is a current issue. The role of laboratory medicine in modern medical care will be discussed under each of these subjects. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1307494/
Abstract: Four carcinogenic volatile nitrosamines (N-dimethylnitrosamine, NDMA; N-diethylnitrosamine, NDEA; N-nitrosopyrroline, NPYR; and N-nirosopiperilidine, NPIP) were screened in twenty specimens of salted fish collected from areas in China with different nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC) mortality rates. The highest NDMA, NDEA and total N-nitrosamine contents (322.92, 50.27 and 373.19 micrograms/kg, respectively) were found in the samples from Sihui, one of the areas with highest NPC mortality. The lowest contents (12.64, 7.65 and 20.29 micrograms/kg, respectively) were seen in the samples from Shanghai, the area with the lowest mortality from NPC in the study. These results confirm that there are appreciable levels of nitrosamines in the salted fishes consumed by residents in high-risk areas of NPC in China. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1308087/
Abstract: The mutagenicity of aqueous extracts of four Nigerian food additives namely Xylopia aethiopica (Xa), Monodora species (Ms); fermented Litrillus lanatus-ogiri (Og) and fermented Parikia africans (African locust bean)-Iru (Ir) alone and in combination with different concentrations of aflatoxin B1 (0.05 microgram-0.25 micrograms) in the presence and absence of fecalase was studied using the Ames' salmonella mutagenicity assay system. Preliminary screening tests show the tester strain TA98 to be the most sensitive of the four tester strains (TA97, TA98, TA100, TA102) screened. The most mutagenic of the doses of the extracts are 3mg each of Xa and Ms per plate and 5mg each of Og and Ir per plate. A combination of these doses with different concentrations of aflatoxin B1 resulted in an enhanced mutagenicity of aflatoxin B1. The increases could not be accounted for by additive mutagenicity of the extracts and aflatoxin B1. Fecalase further increased the effects resulting from these combinations with the exception of Xa which showed a decrease in mutagenic induction. The increase may be indicative of the presence of some mutagenic glycosides in the extracts. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1307777/
Abstract: Authors examined 46 patients with hyperlipoproteinaemia divided according to hyperlipoproteinaemia type II A, II B, IV. After one month of isocaloric diet the patients were given a single night gevilon dose of 900 mg for a period of 3 months. After therapy we examined lipid metabolism, liver and kidney function, carbohydrate metabolism, hematopoietic system and water--electrolyte balance. In all groups increased levels of cholesterol, beta-lipoproteins and triglycerides were significantly reduced after 3 months of gevilon treatment. In all patients the HDL/LDL ratio increased close to normal values. No impairment of kidney or liver function hematopoietic system and electrolyte balance after 3 months of treatment were noted. Because gevilon is easy to apply and has a limited number of side effects, it is very readily taken by the patients who have lipid balance disorders. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1307305/
Abstract: An animal model of postmenopausal osteoporosis was established and the animals were treated with sex hormones in the experiment. From a group of fifty female Wistar rats, forty were castrated and ten were subjected to sham operation served as controls. After fourteen weeks, ten rats each from the castrated (the Model group) and control rats were killed. Through bone histomorphometry and bone mineral analysis it was sure that a good model of postmenopausal osteoporosis was established with a high bone turnover rate at the tissue level. The bone loss occurred mainly at the trabecular surface through decreased osteoblastic activity, resulting in a negative balance of the bone metabolitic unite. Of the remaining thirty castrated rats, ten were treated beginning from the 15th week for eight weeks with oestrogen, ten with progesterogen, and ten without treatment served as positive controls. The result showed that stilbestrol at 0.2 mg/day could maintain bone mass, and provera alone at 0.8 mg/day had the similar effect as oestrogen. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1307887/
Abstract: Sodium nitroprusside is an antihypertensive agent used frequently in the critical care setting. Recently, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) published a report that led to a labeling change emphasizing the pharmacokinetics of nitroprusside with metabolism to highly toxic cyanide. Although evidence validates that cyanogenesis occurs with nitroprusside administration, prevention and treatment of cyanide poisoning is rarely instituted in clinical practice. Simultaneous infusion of thiosulfate with nitroprusside provides the sulfur donor necessary to prevent cyanide accumulation. Cyanide combines with thiosulfate to form the less toxic sodium thiocyanate, which is then excreted. A 10:1 ratio of nitroprusside to thiosulfate in the infusion eliminates the possibility of cyanide intoxication without altering the efficacy of nitroprusside. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1308104/
Abstract: Lipoprotein(a) is an atherogenic lipoprotein which has been studied predominantly in white populations. Serum lipoprotein(a), serum lipids, and apolipoproteins A-I and B were quantified in 1991 in a total of 300 sex-matched samples derived from five different ethnic groups. Three population samples of Asian origin (Tibet, Korea, and China), one population sample of West African origin (Nigeria), and one Western population sample (Belgium) were included. All serum samples had been collected in the past (3-11 years previously) and had been stored at -80 degrees C since then. Thirty serum samples from males and 30 serum samples from females were analyzed from each ethnic group. Overall median lipoprotein(a) levels in Koreans, Chinese, Tibetans, Nigerians, and Belgians were 99, 89, 49, 134, and 80 mg/liter, respectively. Lipoprotein(a) frequency distributions were highly skewed to the right in all populations, with the Nigerian distribution showing less skewness than the Asian and Western plots. All distributions became nearly gaussian after logarithmic transformation. No statistical difference was found between the mean log lipoprotein(a) values of the sexes (4.43 +/- 1.01 mg/liter (standard deviation) in men; 4.44 +/- 1.08 mg/liter in women). Pearson correlation analysis of both sexes combined revealed no statistically significant correlation (at the p less than 0.01 level) of log lipoprotein(a) with age, height, weight, body mass index, cholesterol, high density lipoprotein cholesterol, apolipoprotein A-I, or apolipoprotein B within any of the population groups studied or after pooling of all population groups. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1308248/
Abstract: The prevalence study of thumb digital sucking carried out on 3-12-year- old 2517 children, 1293 boys & 1224 girls, with different socio-economic status, belonging to villages, suburbs and city areas of Calcutta revealed that non-nutritional sucking habit was predominantly seen in cities, and bottle feeding was found to be the main cause of this habit; in 3-6-year-old children the prevalence of the habit was more in boys than girls but it persisted more in boys with increase in age. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1308263/
Abstract: We studied the effect of high cholesterol fat breakfast containing approximately 527 mg cholesterol and 33 gm fat given for seven days in 10 healthy females of young age (18 to 21 years) and in healthy older females of age group (48 to 60 years). Serum total cholesterol and low density lipoprotein did not alter significantly after feeding and after withdrawal of high cholesterol fat breakfast. Serum high density lipoprotein increased significantly in young females after feeding and further increased after withdrawal for seven days, while in older females no appreciable change occurred. Serum triglyceride showed a significant decline in young persons after feeding but gradually increased after withdrawal while in older females no significant change occurred. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1308249/
Abstract: An epidemiological study on interrelationship between dental caries and sugar consumption conducted on 1265 children in the age of 5-15 years revealed a positive association of dental caries experience with total sugar exposures, between meal sugar exposures and at meal sugar exposures. As the total increased from 3 to 4 in a day, a corresponding jump of 1 deft+DMFT and 2 defs+DMFS was noted, which was clinically and statistically significant. It was deduced that total sugar exposures per day should be limited to 3, out of which two should be at meal time and one between meals. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1308285/
Abstract: The aim of these investigations were the estimation of methods and results of treatment obese diabetics over 65 years and presentation of the most common mistakes of treatment. Two groups of elderly obese diabetics type 2 were compared. The first group involved the patients who kept closely to a low caloric diet and they achieved a decrease of their body mass. The second group consisted of the patients who failed to keep to a low caloric diet and their body mass after treatment either remained the same or increased. In almost all the cases of the first group a significant improvement was observed. The improvement manifested itself by the decrease of glycemia and glycosuria as well as by a lower demand for hypoglycemic drugs. In the second group the decrease of hypoglycemic drugs was not possible and in many cases the increase of hypoglycemic drug doses was necessary. The body mass reduction in obese diabetics also those of advanced years is a significant factor in the process of treatment and it is equally important to pharmacotherapy. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1308303/
Abstract: Techniques for surgical liver resections have improved in the last years. The results obtained with liver resections in 67 patients with benign and malignant tumors in a referral hospital for liver diseases in Mexico are analyzed retrospectively, with the aim of knowing the results obtained with such problems in our country. For benign diseases we operated on 36 patients with mean age of 45 years (26 were women), we had one operative death. In 31 patients with operations for malignant tumors (16 were primary liver tumors), the mean age was 52 years and 17 were men; there were eight operative deaths. Major hepatic resections are justified, the results are very satisfactory in benign disease; a major proportion of complications have to be accepted in patients with malignant disease; however, the results are good if we realize that those patients will die in few months if the tumor is not removed. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1308391/
Abstract: The authors raise a discussion on nutritional needs of severely traumatized patients under the currently knowledges about the pathophysiology of trauma, particularly in head injury patients. Special attention to the hypermetabolic and hypercatabolic states is given. Some considerations about dietary glucose and protein interactions are made. Finally, the authors expose the diet composition currently used in their institution. Routes and volumes for diet administration are commented. Questions about further studies in some areas of this field are also stated. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1308308/
Abstract: A retrospective study of nine patients with pancreato-biliary neoplasias were operated in several general hospitals in Torreon, Mexico. Six had pancreatic adenocarcinoma, two ampullary carcinoma and one with common bile duct benign adenoma. We had a morbidity of 55% (5/9); three cases with pancreatic fistula (resolved with nutritional support and general measures) two had obstruction of gastricyeyuno anastomosis (one required surgical management). One patient (11%) died of massive pulmonary embolism. We have now the possibility to perform an earlier diagnosis with update invasive and non invasive diagnostic studies such ERCP, computed tomography and angiography. We are proud to have in our hospitals, intensive care units and well trained surgeons that allow us to perform such kind of specialized surgery. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1308411/
Abstract: Eleven out of 36 autopsied cases of Wernicke's encephalopathy had developed coma. None of these patients had the diagnosis during life. There were six men and five women with ages ranging from 26 to 50 years (mean 36.6). Seven of these patients were heavy drinkers, three exhibited signs of severe malnutrition, whereas one was being evaluated for a disseminated gastric cancer and one was in treatment of hyperemesis gravidarum. Two patients were brought to the hospital after found unconscious at home. Neuropathological examination disclosed gross changes in the mammillary bodies in eight cases and microscopic changes in all cases. In one case there was atrophy of the anterior superior part of the vermis. Petechial hemorrhages were observed particularly in the walls of the third ventricle. Microscopically there were in addition to hemorrhages, glial proliferation, endothelial hypertrophy and necrosis of nerve cells and myelin. Central pontine myelinolysis was observed in one case. Wernicke's encephalopathy is a clinically underdiagnosed condition. Coma may mask its classical clinical picture or even be the sole manifestation. Although coma points to a poor outlook it may be reversed by thiamine administration. Any patient with coma of unknown etiology should be given parenteral thiamine. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1352111/
Abstract: Ten healthy volunteers were used in two studies investigating the effect of short-term Brassica consumption on caffeine metabolism. In the first study volunteers were given three Brassica-containing meals, the last one 3 h prior to caffeine administration. In the second study volunteers were given two Brassica-containing meals and then fasted overnight before caffeine administration. In both studies the mean plasma half-life of caffeine was reduced by approximately 20% following a Brassica diet, suggesting that Brassica vegetables stimulate caffeine metabolism. When caffeine was given 3 h after the last meal, plasma caffeine concentrations over 6 h, were increased by up to 27% on the Brassica diet compared to controls. This may be due to a transient increased permeability of the intestine to caffeine, immediately following Brassica consumption. This effect was not seen in the second study where there was a 12-h period between the last meal and caffeine administration. There was large interindividual variation in the effect of the Brassica diet on caffeine metabolism. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1351714/
Abstract: Doppler spectrum analysis was performed in the nonused internal mammary artery in a group of patients who underwent myocardial revascularization using the contralateral internal mammary artery and in both internal mammary arteries in a group of patients who underwent median sternotomy for cardiac surgical procedures in which the internal mammary artery was not used. In all nonused internal mammary arteries the preoperatively triphasic systolic flow pattern had postoperatively converted into a unidirectional systolic flow pattern with a large diastolic flow component, characterized by a significant increase in the diastolic flow parameters and a significant decrease in the resistance and pulsatility indices. This effect had almost subsided at 6 months postoperatively. This study indicates that the reactive hyperemia observed in the nonused internal mammary artery in the early postoperative period is mainly caused by the temporarily increased metabolic demand of the anterior thoracic wall and mediastinum, rather than by the metabolic demand of the anterior diaphragm and the contralateral rectus abdominis muscle after deprivation of their main nutritional vessel. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1351858/
Abstract: Somatostatin 28 (S-28), originating in gastrointestinal cells, is secreted into the circulation and increases in humans after ingestion of a mixed meal. To evaluate the possibility that the increased levels of S-28 post cibum might modulate the release of enzymes and bicarbonate from the exocrine pancreas, S-28 was infused intravenously into healthy volunteers to levels seen after food intake. During S-28 infusion, the output of lipase, trypsin, amylase, and bicarbonate stimulated by either exogenous cholecystokinin octapeptide or endogenous signals from intraduodenal administration of tryptophan or a mixture of amino acids was significantly reduced. It is concluded that S-28 released from the gut during food intake modulates pancreatic exocrine function in humans. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1352218/
Abstract: The urinary metabolic profiles of two novel orally active iron chelators, 1,2-dimethyl-3-hydroxypyridin-4-one (CP20 or L1) and 1,2-diethyl-3-hydroxypyridin-4-one (CP94), have been studied in rats. The metabolism of CP20 was also studied in humans. Four novel metabolites of CP20, and a further three metabolites of CP94 were characterized. CP20 was found to undergo extensive phase II metabolism at the 3-hydroxy position, forming predominantly the O-glucuronide, which accounted for 44% of the dose administered in rat and greater than 85% of the dose administered in man. The 3-O-methylated CP20 metabolite (metabolite I) accounted for 1% of the administered dose in both species, whereas the unmetabolized CP20 amounted to 10.5% and 4% of the dose administered in the rats and man, respectively. In contrast, CP94 was extensively hydroxylated at the 2-ethyl position to give its 2-(1-hydroxyethyl) metabolite in the rat, which accounted for 40% of the administered dose. The O-glucuronide metabolite of CP94 accounted for 13.8% of the administered dose, whereas the unmetabolized CP94 amounted to 6.9% of the administered dose. At 72 hr, urinary levels of CP20 and CP94 and their metabolites in the rat accounted for about 55-60% of the administered dose. A large portion of the dose is therefore probably eliminated via the bile. The identity of the above metabolites was established using a combination of two or more of the following techniques: fast atom bombardment-mass spectroscopy, LC-MS, UV-VIS spectroscopy, NMR spectroscopy, specific enzyme hydrolysis assays, and chemical synthesis of compounds. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1351654/
Abstract: Studies of the effect of thyroxine replacement therapy on bone mineral density have given conflicting results; the reductions in bone mass reported by some have prompted recommendations that prescribed doses of thyroxine should be reduced. We have examined the effect of long-term thyroxine treatment in a large homogeneous group of patients; all had undergone thyroidectomy for differentiated thyroid cancer but had no history of other thyroid disorders. The 49 patients were matched with controls for age, sex, menopausal status, body mass index, smoking history, and calcium intake score; in all subjects bone mineral density at several femoral and vertebral sites was measured by dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry. Despite long-term thyroxine therapy (mean duration 7.9 [range 1-19] years) at doses (mean 191 [SD 50] micrograms/day) that resulted in higher serum thyroxine and lower serum thyrotropin concentrations than in the controls, the patients showed no evidence of lower bone mineral density than the controls at any site. Nor was bone mineral density correlated with dose, duration of therapy, or cumulative intake, or with tests of thyroid function. There was a decrease in bone density with age in both groups. We suggest that thyroxine alone does not have a significant effect on bone mineral density and hence on risk of osteoporotic fractures. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1352328/
Abstract: Diets with a high-fiber content have been shown to produce some beneficial effects on metabolic factors in subjects with NIDDM. However, some controversies still exist. In this report, the long-term effect of guar gum (Guarina) on both glycemic and blood lipid profiles was assessed in a randomized, double-blind and cross-over study on 16 (seven male and nine female) subjects with NIDDM. Each subject received placebo (P) and Guarina (G) treatment for two eight-week periods separated by a four-week period to facilitate wash-out. Fasting plasma glucose levels showed significant improvement during G treatment but not during P treatment (151.7 +/- 7.9 vs 168.6 +/- 12.2 mg/dl, p less than 0.01 by paired Student's t test). Hemoglobin Alc levels decreased significantly during G treatment but not during P treatment (6.9 +/- 0.2 vs 7.2 +/- 0.8%, p less than 0.001). Fasting insulin concentrations also showed significant lowering during G treatment but not during P treatment (18.3 +/- 2.1 vs 23.1 +/- 2.9 U/ml, p less than 0.005). Other variables, including serum total cholesterol, triglyceride, HDLc, LDLc, sodium, potassium, chloride, magnesium and calcium levels showed no significant changes during G or P treatment. Ten out of the 16 patients (62.5%) suffered from side effects; these included abdominal cramps (one case), diarrhea (seven cases) and skin itching (one case). In conclusion, guar gum effectively lowers fasting plasma glucose and HbAlc levels in subjects with NIDDM. Hyperinsulinemia could also be ameliorated. The effectiveness and side effects of guar gum treatment should be cautiously evaluated in each NIDDM subject. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1352339/
Abstract: From February 1990 to January 1991, 19 cases of hydronephrosis in children of less than one year of age were managed at Mackay Memorial Hospital. In the majority of these patients, there were evident causes such as ureteropelvic junction stenosis, ureterovesical reflux or a posterior urethral valve for which definite therapeutic measures were performed. However, some cases had no obvious origins and the hydronephrosis was speculated to be from nonobstructive or physiologic dilatation of the kidneys. The conventional tools, such as intravenous pyelogram or renal ultrasound, which comprise the mainstay of diagnosis, provide limited information on renal functional status. Recent introduction of the Tc-99m diethylene triamine penta-acetic acid (DTPA) diuretic renal scan has enabled us to distinguish between obstructive and nonobstructive hydronephrosis and helps us to determine whether or not surgery is necessary. In the past year, eight patients with hydronephrosis of less than one year of age were diagnosed as nonobstructive after a series of evaluations using renal ultrasound, voiding cystourethrography (VCUG) and Tc-99m DTPA diuretic renal scan. Follow-up studies by echography or DTPA renal scan revealed spontaneous resolution of the dilated collecting systems in these cases and confirms our belief that some hydronephrosis in neonates and infants may resolve spontaneously and may just be a manifestation of physiologic change during development. The value of the Tc-99m DTPA diuretic renal scan in the diagnosis of obstructive uropathy is discussed. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1352407/
Abstract: Pancreatic ascites is an entity defined as amylase levels up to 1.000 U/l in ascitic liquid. Frequently, it is secondary to a rupture of pancreatic ductus or pseudocyst and foreward communication to peritoneal space. We present a male diagnosed of calcified alcoholic chronic pancreatitis with pancreatic ascites secondary to a pseudocyst. Combination of parenteral nutrition and sintetic cyclic somatostatin was efficient. It would act by reducing pancreatic secretion in a long-term manner, which is the final purpose of the treatment. This association would be considered as a former tool in ascitic pancreatic patients, evacuatory punction or delayed surgery been relegated to a conservatory treatment failure or when primary pathology indicate it. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1352445/
Abstract: Dentine of permanent mandibular incisors from nine individuals was hydrolysed and the amino acid composition determined by ion-exchange chromatography against a standard calibrant of 41 amino acids. Nineteen amino acids were detected, including small quantities of 1-methylhistidine and asparagine, two amino acids whose existence had apparently not been recorded before in human dentine. The total content of hydroxylysine plus lysine varied between 2.6 and 3.3 residues per 100 (SD, 0.74) in different teeth, which therefore did not support previous studies that had proposed a constant total value. This and other quantifiable differences between present and previous findings may be the result of the different methods and the influence of dietary and other regional factors on dentinogenesis. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1352451/
Abstract: Recently, much attention has focussed on the role of follicular dendritic cells as a reservoir of infectious particles in retroviral, particularly HIV, infection. In this report from a recent meeting, Johannes Gerdes and Hans-Dieter Flad describe these studies in the context of a growing awareness of the morphological, phenotypic and functional heterogeneity of the cells. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1353192/
Abstract: Previous studies of the effect of 6-monthly vitamin A supplementation on child mortality have given conflicting results. In other trials, more frequent doses of vitamin A have significantly reduced mortality among children at risk of vitamin A deficiency. We have done a double-blind, placebo-controlled trial of vitamin A supplementation in the Sudan among 28,753 children aged 9-72 months at risk of vitamin A deficiency. Children were assigned to receive either 200,000 IU vitamin A and 40 IU vitamin E every 6 months (vitamin A group) or 40 IU vitamin E alone (placebo group). During the 18 months of follow-up, there were 120 deaths (8.4/1000) in the vitamin A group and 112 (7.9/1000) in the placebo group (relative risk 1.06, 95% confidence interval 0.82-1.37). Controlling for geographic site, round of observation, anthropometry, morbidity, dietary intake of vitamin A, sex, and all baseline differences between the two groups did not change the results. Children living in poor and unsanitary environments, younger children, and those sick, stunted, wasted, or consuming diets low in vitamin A were at a significantly higher risk of dying. The lack of an effect of large-dose vitamin A supplementation on mortality, despite a clear association between dietary vitamin A and mortality, underscores the need to identify factors that modify the efficacy of vitamin A supplements as a public-health measure. Reducing poverty, improvements in sanitation, and access to adequate diets should remain the main goals to improve child survival. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1353086/
Abstract: The degree of microbiological contamination in enteral diets was studied and the possible infectious complications that could arise in the patient after administration of an enteral feed were evaluated. Of the 208 diets studied, 56 (26.9%) were contaminated and 152 (73.1%) were sterile. Of the 56 contaminated diets, 11 could be used as delivered, but the other 45 required further modification. Of the patients who had received enteral feeding, 43 developed gastrointestinal symptoms in the first 24 h (fever, vomiting, abdominal pain and diarrhoea). Twenty-nine (67.4%) had received a contaminated diet and 14 (32.6%) an uncontaminated one. We conclude that contamination of enteral feeds may constitute a risk factor for nosocomial infection, and consider it necessary to carry out epidemiological surveillance in order to control the factors which may lead to contamination of enteral diets. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1353049/
Abstract: The use of total parenteral nutrition (TPN) in five out of six infants with short bowel syndrome (SBS) adaptation permitted enteral nutrition. The duration of TPN depended on the extent of the resection, whether it was proximal or distal, and the adaptation of the residual gut. Residual bowel measuring 10 cm required prolonged TPN in the sixth infant and was not compatible with survival. Catheter-related complications were infection, malposition and dislodgement of the catheter. Metabolic complications were easily controlled by regulating the concentration of the infusate and the rate of the infusion. Osteopenia was common in prolonged TPN and was corrected with vitamin D supplementation. Cholestasis was the most common complication. It was demonstrated with elevation of gamma-glutamyl-transpeptidase levels which became evident as early as six weeks after the introduction of TPN. Serum bilirubin and transaminase elevations were later manifestations. One infant died of hepatic decompensation. Late morphological manifestations were those of cholestatic changes with fibrosis. The biochemical abnormalities of cholestasis were reversible provided TPN was discontinued at an early stage. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1366328/
Abstract: The clinical effects of Nifuroxasid (N), Trimetoprim sulphametoxasol (TS) and Bactisubtil (B) on bacillar dysentery and alimentary toxicoinfections in the patients treated at the Clinic from January 1984 to the end of December 1989 have been analysed. According to the clinical signs, patients have been divided in ten categories of light, mild and heavy forms. In total, 329 cases of bacillar dysentery and 89 cases of alimentary toxicoinfections have been analysed. The following was established: A. Bacilar dysentery: the fastest normalization of the stool was achieved with N in every clinical form (averages 2.2, 3.5 and 4.05 days). With TS the effects were slower (3.0, 3.9 and 4.4 days), but the slowest normalization was recorded with B (3.4, 4.6 and 5.4 days). However, with TS, some Shigella strains showed resistance (in 23 out of 94 antibiograms), which diminished the effects. B. Alimentary toxicoinfections were treated only with N and B, since these forms of diarrhea caused by toxigenic factors were milder. Better results were achieved with N in this case as well. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1366343/
Abstract: Abnormal dietary habits that lead to hypercalciuria, hyperoxaluria, hypereruricosuria, and hypocitraturia do not always result in nephrolithiasis. A concept is emerging according to which, to account for renal stone formation in the face of the aforementioned biochemical disorders, one must search for underlying conditions in patients with the disease. Work carried out over the past few years and reviewed herein definitely supports this idea and includes the following processes: 1) interleukin-1 production by monocytes to augment the impact of dietary hypercalciuria; 2) disturbed activation of pyridoxine to pyridoxal 5'-phosphate to aggravate dietary hyperoxaluria; 3) abnormal intestinal transport of citrate to aggravate dietary hypocitraturia; 4) molecular abnormalities of glycoprotein inhibitors to aggravate the promotive effect of the diet on urinary crystallization; and 5) renal tubular lesions to favor particle retention and stone formation. This article reviews the most recent literature and discusses the author's "powder keg and tinderbox" theory of idiopathic calcium stone disease. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1366330/
Abstract: The researchers were done in the Counselling Service for Nutrition of the Institute of Hygiene in Sarajevo. The voluntary group of researched persons was treated regarding the body weight. The corpulance was for about 25-30% (percent) higher than it was normal for the persons with their individual characteristics--sex, age, height and body constitution. The investigated persons were classified into two groups--the experimental group A, one to which besides diet the reduction the "Alginete" pills were given helping the (acceleration) process of weight reduction--losing weight. The controlling group was only an individual reduction diet. The way and the results of standing the diet were given in the work. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1366245/
Abstract: Background:
        
      
      The evaluation of the feeding changes in the first months of life is used to estimate the achievement of more healthy practices, after a year of developing the infant health surveillance programme. Methods:
        
      
      A retrospective study was carried out in a unit of Pediatrics of a Primary Health Center.... The clinical histories of children, born between 1-4-90 and 30-9-90 (group I, n = 55) and those of the children born between 1-4-89 and 30-9-89 (group II, n = 41) were reviewed. The evaluation ended the 30-3-91. Neonatal hospital morbidity, socio-familiar data, and the feeding practices during the first six months of life were studied. Results:
        
      
      The mothers, who were 20 years or less at delivery, were 12 in the group I, and 2 in the group II. The proportion of housekeepers was near the 70% in both groups. Breast-feeding during the first month of life is 85,45% in group I and 53,66% in group II (p < 0.001). Conclusions:
        
      
      Increase of adolescent mothers and SO, higher number of children with possible psycho-social and health risks. Suitable social conditions for maternal participation in the activities of the Infant Health surveillance Programme. Health education is the most adequate method to establish a more healthy relation between mother and child. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1366574/
Abstract: The polymerase chain reaction (PCR) was used to identify strains of Escherichia coli which produce heat-labile toxin type I (LTI). Amplification primers were designed to detect E. coli strains of human as well as porcine origin. This assay was used to test the ATCC 37218 strain, which carries a recombinant plasmid with the genetic information for production of porcine LTI (pLTI). In addition, three clinical E. coli isolates of human and one of porcine origin were tested. All clinical isolates were reported to produce heat-labile enterotoxin (hLTI and pLTI, respectively) when tested by the Y1 adrenal cell method and/or by the CHO cell method. All strains yielded the expected 275 bp DNA fragment after enzymatic amplification. This fragment was further identified by allele specific oligonucleotide hybridization. Alternatively, the fragment was identified by a SmaI restriction enzyme site which is present in the genes of both the E. coli isolated from humans and pigs. The detection limit determined in water with the ATCC 37218 strain was 20 bacteria. The amplified sequence included a CfoI polymorphism which allowed to distinguish between the genes coding for pLTI and hLTI. All of the strains tested showed this polymorphism as expected. Depending on the identification method chosen, SmaI digestion or oligonucleotide hybridization, pure water can be analysed within 8 h or 12 h, respectively. This method may be adapted to environmental and food samples. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1367332/
Abstract: Fructooligosaccharides stimulate the growth of intestinal bifidobacteria which are related to the favorable health and nutrition of humans and other animals. Since the efficient amount of fructooligosaccharide for an adult human is relatively large (about 5 g per day), its addition to daily foods like bakery goods might be beneficial. However, commercial Bakers' yeast hydrolyses fructooligosaccharides by the action of invertase encoded in SUC genes and ferments the resulting monosaccharides. According to the findings that strains carrying the MAL-constitutive gene and lacking the SUC gene fermented sucrose and not fructooligosaccharide, we constructed a sucrose-fermenting strain, YOY920, incapable of hydrolysing fructooligosaccharide, by cross-breeding a baking strain and a laboratory strain. In a molasses medium, the cell yield of YOY920 was comparable to that of a baking strain FSC6001, and much higher than that of the non-sucrose-fermenting strains. Although fructooligosaccharide inhibited the dough leavening ability of YOY920, white bread containing fructooligosaccharide could be produced in the defined dough formula using the new strain. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1367698/
Abstract: Hybridoma cells usually grow to fairly low cell densities in batch cultures (1-3 x 10(6) cells/ml). The reason for this is either that essential nutritional components of the medium are consumed, or that the cells produce some kind of inhibitory or toxic metabolite. This investigation presents evidence for the latter. Spent medium from cultures of hybridoma cells did not support growth of cells at lower cell densities (1-3 x 10(5) cells/ml). The ability to support cell growth could not be restored by adding additional serum, energy sources (glucose, pyruvate) or L-glutamine. Furthermore, the consumption of amino acids could not account for this growth inhibition. On the contrary, the spent medium contained a substance that inhibited cell growth. This substance or metabolite was found in a fraction eluted from a gel filtration column when spent medium was applied to the column. This substance was found in the spent medium from all hybridoma and myeloma cell lines that were tested. The molecular weight of the substance was about 5 kD. Spent medium from two hybridoma cell lines also contained a substance that was eluted in the same fraction as albumin (67 kD). It is likely that this (or these) substance(s) is responsible for the growth limitation in hybridoma cell cultures. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1367699/
Abstract: The iron-rich (500 microM ferric citrate) protein-free supplement was added to six different basal media. Cell growth and monoclonal antibody production of a mouse-mouse hybridoma were investigated in 1.3 1 batch cultures performed in a laboratory bioreactor with automatic control of pH and dissolved oxygen concentration. RPMI 1640 served as the control medium. Fortification of the basal medium by balanced mixtures of amino acids and vitamins showed higher positive effect than daily supplementation by glucose and glutamine. Strongly fortified medium, based on RPMI 1640, was found superior to other basal media. The viability index increased by a factor of 3.04 and the total antibody production by a factor of 2.82, relative to the control. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1368021/
Abstract: Combining flow injection analysis with a biosensor is a novel biosensing process which has allowed speedy and accurate analysis. Diagnostic analysis is the most important application for biosensing flow injection analysis, but other applications include bioprocess monitoring, analysis of food and agricultural products, as well as environmental analysis. In addition, the analysis of compounds, such as explosives and abused drugs, and monitoring of Salmonella, the microorganism that causes food poisoning, have been reported. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1368348/
Abstract: A highly sensitive enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) for quantitation of Clostridium perfringens enterotoxin (CPE) by a sandwich method with polystyrene beads was elaborated. The ELISA was very sensitive with a detection limit of 1 pg/ml of CPE. Clostridium perfringens culture fluid did not interfere with the assay. This ELISA may be useful for the mass screening for Cl. perfringens producing small amounts of CPE. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1368702/
Abstract: A rapid and convenient measurement of tryptophan in whole blood, serum, liver, brain, urine, and alkaline hydrolysates of proteins and foodstuff was done by high-performance liquid chromatography. The sample preparation was simply homogenized or mixed in a 5% trichloroacetic acid solution and a sample of the supernatant was injected onto a column after filtration with a 0.45-micron filter. The method used a Chemcosorb 5-ODS-H column (particle size, 5 microns, 150 x 4.6 mm i.d.) eluted with 20 mM potassium dihydrogen phosphate (pH adjusted to 3.7 by the addition of phosphoric acid) containing 1 g/l of sodium heptane sulfonate and 3 mg/l EDTA.2Na-acetonitrile (93:7, v/v) at a flow rate of 1.5 ml/min. The tryptophan contents in whole blood, serum, liver, and brain were electrochemically estimated at +1000 mV vs. Ag/AgCl, the detection limit being 0.2 pmol (40.84 pg) at a signal-to-noise ratio of 5:1. The tryptophan contents in urine, proteins, and foodstuff were fluorometrically estimated with an excitation wavelength of 280 nm and with an emission wavelength of 340 nm, the detection limit being 20 pmol (4.08 ng) at a signal-to-noise ratio of 5:1. Tryptophan was eluted at about 10.5 min. The total analysis time was about 12 min. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1329408/
Abstract: Two outbreaks of virus hepatitis were etiologically and epidemiologically interpreted. In this work the original method of obtaining washings, with their subsequent concentration, from the suspected foodstuff was used and hepatitis A virus was then detected in concentrated washings in the enzyme immunoassay, which made it possible to confirm the contribution of the alimentary factor of the transfer of infection (sun-cured melon) in the above-mentioned outbreaks. The data thus obtained are indicative of the necessity to conduct epidemiological investigation, taking into account the possibility of contacting hepatitis A when using foodstuffs not subjected to preliminary treatment. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1329484/
Abstract: Ten patients with active Crohn's disease who have been managed with parenteral-nutrition therapy were administered a lipid emulsion either with [containing 0.6 g eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA)] or without fish oil for 2 wk. We isolated polymorphonuclear leukocytes (PMNLs) from the patients before and after this treatment and measured the amounts of leukotriene B4 (LTB4) and leukotriene B5 (LTB5) generated by activated PMNLs by reversed-phase HPLC. The LTB5 generation in active Crohn's disease before this treatment was significantly lower than in healthy control subjects. The amount of LTB5 and the LTB5-LTB4 ratio increased significantly after fish-oil supplementation. The difference with LTB4 was not statistically significant. We have shown that daily intravenous administration of 0.6 g EPA influenced the generation of leukotrienes in active Crohn's disease even after short-term treatment. Further investigations are necessary to clarify the correlation between EPA and clinical improvement in Crohn's disease. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1330083/
Abstract: Diverticular disease of the colon is a common health problem in western societies. Most patients with colonic diverticula are asymptomatic; it has been estimated that only 20% of individuals harboring diverticula will develop symptoms and signs of illness and a minority will develop major complications. Although the efficacy of a high fiber diet in the management of symptomatic uncomplicated diverticular disease is still controversial, bran and bulking agents are commonly used. Antibiotics are used to treat major inflammatory complications of diverticular disease but apparently there is no rationale for the use of antibiotics in uncomplicated disease where an inflammatory component is by definition excluded. In a multicenter open trial, 217 patients with symptomatic uncomplicated diverticular disease were treated with glucomannan (110 pts) or with glucomannan plus a poorly absorbable antibiotic (rifaximin 400 mg bid for 7 days each month) (107 pts). Clinical evaluation was performed bimonthly for 12 months using a global score system for 8 clinical variables. After 12 months, patients treated with glucomannan plus rifaximin showed a 63.9% reduction of the score as compared to 47.6% in patients treated with glucomannan only (p < 0.001). Cyclic administration of rifaximin appears to be of some advantage in obtaining symptomatic relief in uncomplicated diverticular disease. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1329503/
Abstract: Declines in serum cholesterol have been reported in patients with altered immune system activity. However, the frequency and clinical significance of transient reductions in serum cholesterol after renal transplantation are unknown. In the present retrospective study, we examined the frequency and clinical setting of reduced serum cholesterol (< or = 4.40 mmol/L [170 mg/dL]) in patients who each had 28 +/- 7 (total, 1,110) cholesterol determinations during the first year posttransplant. Reduced cholesterol was found on at least one occasion in 26 of 40 (65%) patients. Ninety-two percent (119/129) of the reduced cholesterol values occurred in one of three clinical settings: (1) within 10 days after transplantation, (2) within 6 weeks before or after the onset of acute rejection, or (3) within 6 weeks before or after the onset of a cytomegalovirus infection (CMV). Multiple linear regression analysis showed that the relationship between reductions in cholesterol associated with acute rejection was independent of CMV and the type of immunosuppression (one half of the patients were treated with cyclosporine [CSA]). The fact that serum albumin was reduced during CMV, but not during acute rejection, suggested that reduced cholesterol associated with rejection was relatively specific, and was not caused by a generalized leak of plasma proteins or by poor nutrition. Thus, during the first year posttransplant, reductions in serum cholesterol are most often associated with acute rejection episodes and/or CMV.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS) 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1329494/
Abstract: Twenty-six domestic reports of suspected adverse reactions from the guar gum-containing diet pill, Cal-Ban 3000 (filed with the FDA) were reviewed. There were 18 instances of esophageal obstruction, seven instances of small bowel obstruction, and one individual who was reported to have died after ingestion of Cal-Ban 3000, but for whom insufficient details were provided to assess causation. There were 14 women and 11 men (mean age 46.3 yr; range 17 to 67 yr) for whom sufficient information was available. Preexisting esophageal or gastric disorders were present in 50% of those with esophageal obstruction, including peptic stricture, pyrosis, hiatal hernia, esophagitis, gastric stapling procedure, Schatzki ring, and muscular dystrophy. Fourteen of these 18 patients with esophageal obstruction were treated successfully by endoscopy, although the tenacious gel-like consistency of the material was often difficult to remove. Two patients required rigid esophagoscopy when flexible endoscopy was unsuccessful. This resulted in the death of one patient who developed a pulmonary embolism after surgical repair of an intraoperative esophageal tear. For the seven patients with small bowel obstruction, no specific predisposing factors were mentioned. One individual required exploratory laparotomy, and inspissated tablets were found in the ileum. These cases, spontaneously reported to the FDA, are very similar to those reported in the literature. The water-holding capacity and gel-forming tendency of guar gum permits it to swell in size 10- to 20-fold, and may lead to luminal obstruction, especially when an anatomic predisposition exists. Such products have been banned in Australia, and Cal-Ban 3000 has recently been removed from the market in the United States. However, unsuspecting patients who are still in possession of the product should be apprised of the potential complications that may arise with its use. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1329482/
Abstract: Previous studies examining the hypocholesterolemic effects of high-soluble-fiber diets have not been designed to control for dietary fat intake. Serum cholesterol reductions may therefore be accounted for by differences in consumption of fat. Moderately hypercholesterolemic, nonobese, Caucasian men and women, 30-50 y old were randomly assigned to low-fat, low-fat plus high-fiber, or usual-diet groups and followed for 12 mo. At 12 mo the high-fiber group consumed significantly more soluble fiber than both the low-fat and usual-diet groups (P = 0.0063 and P = 0.0001); the high-fiber group did not differ from the low-fat group in quantity of dietary fat consumed. The high-fiber group experienced a greater average reduction (13%) in serum cholesterol than did the low-fat (9%) and usual-diet (7%) groups. After adjustment for relevant covariates, the reduction in the high-fiber group was significantly greater than that in the low-fat group (P = 0.0482). Supplementation with soluble fiber reduces serum cholesterol beyond the reduction observed with low-fat diet alone. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1329506/
Abstract: In the present study, lung samples from 126 autopsied cases were examined to determine the content of mineral fibers using analytical transmission electron microscopy (ATEM). The cases were divided into four groups (22 lungs of persons exposed to ambient environmental pollution, 32 cases of mesothelioma, 38 cases of primary lung cancer, and 34 asbestosis cases, 13 of these with additional pleural plaques). Fibers were counted, measured, and mineralogically identified using a combination of X-ray microanalysis and electron diffraction of the non-oriented fiber. Concentration of fibrous particles (defined as particles above 1 micron in length with roughly parallel long sides and an aspect ratio of 5:1 and greater) was calculated as fibers 10(6)/g dry lung weight. The concentration of chrysotile was found to be similar throughout the groups except for two cases in the asbestosis group with comparably high numbers of chrysotile. However, a remarkable difference for amphiboles could be observed between the groups. Asbestos bodies were mostly found in the asbestosis group. There was a rather good correlation between numbers of amphibole fibers and asbestos bodies, with an average ratio of 10:1. For comparison purposes between occupationally exposed/non-exposed individuals, a transition was found in the concentration range of 3-10(7) asbestos fibers/g dried lung weight. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1329521/
Abstract: To study salt sensitivity in humans and its relation to expression of adrenoceptors, 20 male normotensive Caucasians were investigated on a diet of 180 mmol NaCl/day followed by 60 mmol NaCl/day over 2 wk and again by 180 mmol NaCl/day over 2 wk, and blood pressure changes were assessed by long-term oscillatory blood pressure monitoring under basal conditions. Individual cell cultures of skin fibroblasts from skin biopsies were also established, and alpha 2- and beta 2-adrenoceptors were measured. Seven subjects were salt sensitive, and the remainder were salt resistant. Cultured skin fibroblasts in salt-sensitive subjects express less than half the number of beta 2-adrenoceptors compared with salt-resistant subjects (65 +/- 12.7 vs. 173 +/- 14.8 fmol/mg, P less than 0.001), and there is a correlation between the absolute rise of blood pressure on a high-salt diet and the density of beta 2-adrenoceptors (r = -0.67, P less than 0.01). It remains to be established whether a reduced in vitro density of beta 2-adrenoceptors in cultured cells is causally related to salt sensitivity in normotensive humans. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1329483/
Abstract: Healthy, free-living men and women aged 20-83 y (n = 127) were studied to determine the effects of age and sex on copper absorption, biological half-life (BH), and status. Copper absorption was greater in women (71%) than in men (64%) aged 20-59 y (P = 0.02), but did not differ in men and women aged 60-83 y. BH of 67Cu ranged from 13 to 33 d and differed between men and women aged 20-59 y (P = 0.006), but not between men and women aged 60-83 y. Plasma copper, enzymatic ceruloplasmin (Cp), and immunoreactive (RID) Cp were significantly higher in women than in men (P < 0.005), but superoxide dismutase (SOD) and in vitro 67Cu uptake by red blood cells did not differ. Plasma copper, RID Cp, and cytochrome oxidase in platelets and mononuclear cells were significantly affected by age (P < 0.005). Oral contraceptives elevated plasma copper, enzymatic Cp, and SOD activity but not copper absorption and BH in women aged 20-39 y. Copper intake from self-selected diets was 0.9-1.2 mg/d for women and 1.2-1.3 mg/d for men, but net copper absorption (micrograms Cu.kg body wt-1.d-1) did not differ. Thus, dietary copper intake requirements may differ between men and women. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1330106/
Abstract: Basal energy expenditure was measured by indirect calorimetry in 12 cirrhotic patients with hepatocellular carcinoma. Values were compared to those observed in 12 cirrhotic patients without hepatocellular carcinoma but with similar nutrition status. Energy expenditure was also predicted in each patient by the Harris-Benedict equation. Basal energy expenditure, whether expressed as kilocalorie per day or corrected for kilogram body weight or for kilogram fat-free mass, was found increased in cirrhotic patients with hepatocellular carcinoma. These patients expended an average of 250 kcal/day more than was expected given their body size. The highest values were observed in the patients who experienced a recent significant weight loss. Our study demonstrates that the presence of hepatocellular carcinoma on liver cirrhosis increases the metabolic rate of patients. This factor could contribute to progressive malnutrition in patients with hepatocellular carcinoma and should be taken into consideration when these patients are given nutritional support. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1329274/
Abstract: Three children in Bangladesh who presented with diarrhoea, cough, dyspnoea, fever, and signs of malnutrition and died in the hospital were shown at post-mortem examination to have both adenovirus infection of the intestine (by immunofluorescence) and cytomegalovirus infection of the lung (by immunoperoxidase staining). This finding of dual viral infections of the intestine and lung in patients with concomitant enteritis and pneumonia provides a basis for symptoms emanating simultaneously from these two organ systems. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1330252/
Abstract: Conducted a survey at Veterans General Hospital in Taichung, to compile a statistical analysis on the usage of fresh frozen plasma (FFP) transfusions. The investigation was conducted from July 1st to September 30, 1991. According to the distribution of usage of FFP, we investigated 726 transfusions (4,216 units) based on our grouping criteria. We found the following: 532 units were used for clotting support which accounts for 12.6% of total, 815 units (19.3%) for blood pressure support, 148 units (3.5%) for combination of clotting and blood pressure support, 681 units (16.2%) for albumin replacement, 436 units (10.3%) for therapeutic pheresis, 396 units (9.4%) for packed red cell concurrently, 819 units (19.4%) for burn cases, and the remaining (9.2%) for other or unidentified reasons. If it was classified by the departments applying FFP; 76% (3,200 units) were used by surgery, 22.4% (947 units) by internal medicine, and 1.6% (69 units) by other departments. Having classified all the reasons for FFP transfusion, we found that FFP was commonly used as a volume expander, for nutrition support, and reconstituted whole blood. These reasons are out of the range of indications for FFP transfusion. This misuse of FFP transfusion increases the chance of transmission infections therefore, we will thoroughly investigate these treatment modalities in order to ensure our blood source is being used in an appropriate manner. This will allow patients the best possible treatment available. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1330307/
Abstract: In this study, the effects of a diet rich in insoluble fiber (DRIF) on motor disability and the peripheral pharmacokinetics of orally administered L-dopa in Parkinsonian patients with marked constipation are analyzed. We found a useful effect of a DRIF on plasma L-dopa concentration and motor function. The greatest effect on the plasma L-dopa levels was found early (at 30 and 60 min) after oral administration. There was a relationship between the improvement of constipation and the higher bioavailability of L-dopa. DRIF can be a coadjuvant treatment in patients with Parkinson's disease. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1330364/
Abstract: Epidemiological studies of diet and blood pressure support the concept that some dietary nutrients are strongly related to blood pressure and are amenable to modifications, with a likely impact on the incidence of hypertension and of related vascular events. For other potential nutrients, the evidence is more difficult to obtain. Further studies are required to establish 1) the practical value of assessment of individual nutrients versus dietary patterns in risk prediction, 2) the effects of changes of these individual nutrients versus dietary patterns on blood pressure, and 3) whether long-term changes in these individual nutrients or dietary patterns reduce the incidence of hypertension and can be implemented at a population level. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1330360/
Abstract: Background:
        
      
      An effect of diet in determining blood pressure is suggested by epidemiological studies, but the role of specific nutrients is still unsettled. Methods and results:
        
      
      The relation of various nutritional factors with hypertension was examined prospectively among 30,681 predominantly white US male health professionals, 40-75 years old, without diagnosed hypertension. During 4 years of follow-up, 1,248 men reported a diagnosis of hypertension. Age, relative weight, and alcohol consumption were the strongest predictors for the development of hypertension. Dietary fiber, potassium, and magnesium were each significantly associated with lower risk of hypertension when considered individually and after adjustment for age, relative weight, alcohol consumption, and energy intake. When these nutrients were considered simultaneously, only dietary fiber had an independent inverse association with hypertension. For men with a fiber intake of < 12 g/day, the relative risk of hypertension was 1.57 (95% confidence interval, 1.20-2.05) compared with an intake of > 24 g/day. Calcium was significantly associated with lower risk of hypertension only in lean men. Dietary fiber, potassium, and magnesium were also inversely related to baseline systolic and diastolic blood pressure and to change in blood pressure during the follow-up among men who did not develop hypertension. Calcium was inversely associated with baseline blood pressure but not with change in blood pressure. No significant associations with hypertension were observed for sodium, total fat, or saturated, transunsaturated, and polyunsaturated fatty acids. Fruit fiber but not vegetable or cereal fiber was inversely associated with incidence of hypertension. Conclusions:
        
      
      These results support hypotheses that an increased intake of fiber and magnesium may contribute to the prevention of hypertension. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1330459/
Abstract: We investigated the daily life and opinions of patients after total proctocolectomy and ileal J-pouch-anal anastomosis. Eighty patients answered a questionnaire, completed Cattell's anxiety scale, and recorded bowel function for one month. Both colitis and polyposis patients defecated five times daily, had 1.6 episodes of nocturnal motions weekly, and soiled twice weekly. However, colitis patients were more satisfied with their bowel function and surgical outcome than were polyposis patients. This difference had a close relationship to the personality factors of ego strength and frustration. All patients with either disease who defecated less than three times daily, had no nocturnal motions, and had no soiling showed normal ego strength and frustration and were completely satisfied with their bowel status and operation. In contrast, patients defecating more than seven times daily or more than once per week nocturnally and soiling more than four times weekly had high frustration and were dissatisfied. Thus, satisfaction with surgery correlated not only with the objective outcome but also with personality and lifestyle. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1330411/
Abstract: 1. Nine healthy adult subjects consumed four types of proprietary liquid diet of similar volume and calorific value but of different nutritional composition. The effects on resting cardiac output, mean blood pressure and pulse rate were measured. 2. A significant rise in cardiac output occurred with the balanced, protein and carbohydrate diets but not with the fat diet. The greatest rise was seen with the balanced diet. Water alone had no effect on cardiac output. 3. The average time taken to reach peak cardiac output was shortest with the carbohydrate diet and longest with the fat diet. 4. The increases in cardiac output resulted from a rise in both pulse rate and stroke volume. The carbohydrate diet produced the most sustained rise in pulse rate but the least sustained elevation in stroke volume. 5. No significant changes were seen in mean blood pressure when each liquid meal was compared with water. 6. Our data show that the increase in cardiac output with liquid ingestion is related to the dietary components. These effects are additive. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1330396/
Abstract: The relative bioavailability of the capsule dose form (150 mg) and the effect of high-fat food were assessed in a randomized, three-way crossover trial of rifabutin in 12 healthy male volunteers. Each subject received a single 150 mg dose as a solution (treatment A, fasted) or a capsule with food (treatment B) and without food (treatment C), with a 2-week washout period. Serial plasma and urine samples were obtained for 168 and 48 hours, respectively, and rifabutin and its active metabolite, 25-O-deacetyl-rifabutin, quantitated by a validated HPLC procedure. The mean +/- SD maximum concentration for rifabutin in plasma was 238 +/- 65, 156 +/- 52, and 188 +/- 50 ng/ml, time to reach peak concentration was 2.5 +/- 0.4, 5.4 +/- 1.6, and 3.0 +/- 1.1 hours, and the area under the plasma concentration-time curve from zero to infinity [AUC(0-infinity)] was 2989 +/- 726, 2640 +/- 891, and 2516 +/- 601 ng.hr/ml for the solution and the capsule during the fed and fasted states, respectively. Percentage of dose excreted in the urine as unchanged rifabutin was 11.0% +/- 2.4%, 11.4% +/- 4.9%, and 9.1% +/- 2.1% for treatments A, B, and C, respectively. The corresponding AUC(0-infinity) values for the equiactive metabolite 25-O-deacetyl-rifabutin, were 400 +/- 184, 361 +/- 187, and 298 +/- 102 ng.hr/ml.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS) 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1330400/
Abstract: 1. Maximal exercise capacity in cystic fibrosis is influenced by both pulmonary and nutritional factors: lung disease by limiting maximal achievable ventilation, and malnutrition through a loss of muscle mass. The associated reduction in everyday activities may result in peripheral muscle deconditioning. 2. We studied 14 stable patients with cystic fibrosis (six males, eight females) and 14 healthy control subjects (seven males, seven females) in order to assess the influence of these factors on exercise performance. Subjects underwent anthropometry to estimate muscle mass, spirometry to assess ventilatory capacity, a 30 s sprint on an isokinetic cycle ergometer to assess maximal leg muscle performance, and progressive cycle ergometry to assess overall exercise capacity. 3. Compared with control subjects, the patients with cystic fibrosis were of similar age and height but weighed proportionately less [% ideal weight (mean +/- SD): 94.3 +/- 9.64 versus 109.5 +/- 11.82] and showed evidence of airflow limitation [forced expiratory volume in 1.0 s (FEV1.0) 72.5 +/- 24.78 versus 112.6 +/- 14.25% of predicted]. 4. The patients with cystic fibrosis did less absolute (5.1 +/- 1.89 versus 7.3 +/- 1.97 kJ) but similar relative maximal (11.5 +/- 3.41 versus 13.1 +/- 3.55 kJ/kg lean body mass) sprint work. During progressive exercise, the group with cystic fibrosis achieved lower absolute [maximal O2 consumption (VO2max.) 1.8 +/- 0.527 versus 3.0 +/- 0.655 litres/min] and relative (VO2max./kg lean body mass: 40.5 +/- 9.23 versus 53.0 +/- 11.62 ml min-1 kg-1) work levels.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS) 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1330526/
Abstract: Foods appear as complex structures, in which starch may be present in different forms. These, including the molecular characteristics and the crystalline organization, depend on processing conditions and compositions of ingredients. The main changes in starch macro- and microstructures are the increase of surface area to volume ratio in the solid phase, the modification of the crystallinity as affected by gelatinization and gelation, and the depolymerization of amylose and amylopectin. Starch modification may be estimated by different methodologies, which should be selected according to the level of structure considered. When amylose and amylopectin are in solution, rapid and total hydrolysis leads to the formation of a mixture of linear oligosaccharides and branched alpha-limit dextrins. However, starch usually occurs in foods as solid structures. Structural factors of starchy materials influence their enzymic hydrolysis. A better understanding of the enzymatic process enables the identification of the structural factors limiting hydrolysis: diffusion of enzyme molecules, porosity of solid substrates, adsorption of enzymes onto solid substrates, and the catalytic event. A mechanistic modelling should be possible in the future. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1330511/
Abstract: The aim of the study was to evaluate the compliance in a dietary intervention study. When drawing conclusions about the relationship between dietary intake and disease occurrence/disease-related variables it is important to obtain valid dietary data. 20 healthy, non-smoking normal-weight omnivores changed from a mixed to a lactovegetarian diet. Dietary surveys (four 24 h recalls per person and time-period), urinary and faecal sample collections were performed before and 3, 6 and 12 months after the dietary shift. The validation of energy, protein, sodium and potassium yielded approximately the same ratio of dietary intake to biological marker at 0 and 3 months. This ratio decreased towards 6 months and continued to decrease towards 12 months. The fibre intake was compared to the total faecal weight directly and indirectly by calculating the fibre intake from the stool weight, the water content in faeces and the excretion of short-chain fatty acids (SCFAs). These four methods of fibre validation showed that the ratio of dietary intake to biological marker was always highest at 12 months, indicating an overestimation of the fibre intake at the end of the study. This is the first time these methods of validating fibre intake have been used in an epidemiological study. The ratio of dietary calcium intake to urinary and faecal calcium excretion did not show any statistical difference between the period before and 3 months after the dietary shift. To conclude, almost all investigated dietary data show approximately the same validity before and 3 months after the dietary shift, and show the least validity 12 months after the dietary shift. Thus, this study demonstrates that it is difficult to obtain valid dietary data 1 year after a drastic dietary change, indicating a decreased compliance to the new dietary regimen at the end of the 1 year study period. This represents important information when attempting to relate biological effects to dietary intake, and illustrates the importance of using biological markers for food intake in dietary surveys. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1342316/
Abstract: Cardiovascular risk factors were examined in 453 subjects participating in the Wadena City Health Study, a population-based study to assess the relationship between diabetes and glucose intolerance with age. Each subject was classified as either having non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (NIDDM), impaired glucose tolerance (IGT), or normoglycemia, using WHO criteria. Age- and body-mass-adjusted levels of systolic and diastolic blood pressure were lowest for those with normoglycemia, intermediate for those with IGT, and highest for those with NIDDM. Age- and body-mass-adjusted levels of high-density lipoprotein cholesterol were lowest for those with NIDDM, intermediate for those with IGT, and highest for those with normoglycemia, while triglyceride levels were highest for those with NIDDM, intermediate for those with IGT, and lowest for those with normoglycemia in women but not in men. Low-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels were lowest for those with NIDDM, intermediate for those with IGT, and highest for those with normoglycemia. With the exception of men with IGT, no differences by glycemic strata were observed for plasma total cholesterol. The prevalence of smoking showed no consistent pattern by glycemic status. These findings suggest that individuals with IGT have an atherogenic risk factor pattern that may put them at greater risk for coronary heart disease than those with normoglycemia. Intervention strategies such as diet, exercise, and/or drug therapy should be tested to evaluate whether these are effective in preventing conversion to overt diabetes and normalizing cardiovascular disease risk factors. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1342491/
Abstract: An instrument to be used at a primary health care level was built on the basis of a predictive model for diarrhea obtained during a previous study. The instrument was applied to 720 mothers or caregivers of infants living in the Southeastern area of Santiago. 83 infants who fulfilled the requisites of the instrument were surveyed during July-August 1989 and compared to age, nutritional and socioeconomic status matched children not fulfilling the same requisites. Infants selected by the predictive instrument suffered 4 times more morbid episodes and respiratory infections and 5 times more diarrheal episodes than controls. Symptoms were present in them during 50% of the survey period as opposed to 14% in controls. Mothers of children at risk had inadequate behaviors in respect to health care of their children and did not follow many of the National Health programs available for their families. The predictive instrument tested may be useful to identify children at high risk of morbidity, creating the possibility for special interventions in them. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1342486/
Abstract: Infection by Echinococcus granulosus is the main zoonosis affecting the human population of the IXth Region in southern Chile. Prevalence rates vary from 18.2 to 48 per 100,000. Animals are affected with prevalence rates of 40% for bovines, 39.5% for sheep and 14.8% for pork as estimated at the central meat processing plant in the city of Temuco. A cost of approximately $300,000 is estimated to treat affected individuals. Much greater losses may be estimated from unnotified meat processing in rural areas and from reduced yield of animal products such as wool an milk. Accordingly, a regional program for control of this zoonosis is urgently required. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1342479/
Abstract: 30 female patients with anorexia nervosa (AN) were studied and compared with 45 age-matched normal controls. All the patients had severe weight loss and nutritional involvement. Mean and SE body mass index, BMI (kg/m2) were 15.8 +/- 1.8 in anorectics compared to 21.7 +/- 4.7 in normals (p < 0.0001). All the patients presented amenorrhea lasting between 3 and 120 months (mean 24.8 +/- 25.3). A nutritional survey and a dual photon bone densitometry, including spine, hip, total body and total mineral content were performed. The mean values +/- SE in patients and controls were: spine densities (L2-L4) in g/cm2: AN 0.84 +/- 0.1, controls 1.03 +/- 0.1 (p < 0.002). Total mineral content (g): AN mean 1733 +/- 261, controls 2045 +/- 276 (p < 0.0001). In anorectic patients the correlations between bone density and BMI for spine were r: 0.52 (p = 0.002), for hip r: 0.37 (p = 0.04), and total mineral content vs BMI gave r: 0.64 (p = 0.0001). Mean calcium intake in 23 studied patients was lesser than the classic recommended dietary allowance in the whole group, it was less in the pure restricters as compared to vomiters. The relation between duration of amenorrhea and bone density showed than a decrease in the later was evident when the absence of menses was longer than 24 months. In conclusion, in patients with AN there is a real decrease in bone density which is strongly related to low weight and in lesser proportion to the duration of amenorrhea, particularly when it was longer than 24 month. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1342320/
Abstract: A population-based, case-control study of sporadic salmonellosis was conducted in 1988 and 1989 in four northern California counties. The study included 120 patients and 265 control subjects. Conditional logistic regression analysis (adjusted for age) revealed that patients were more likely to consume undercooked chicken prior to the onset of disease (odds ratio [OR], 23.57; 95% confidence interval [CI], 2.89 to 192.30). Elevated associations were also found with recent travel to foreign countries (OR, 9.69; 95% CI, 3.18 to 29.56), diabetes (OR, 6.29; 95% CI, 1.56 to 25.34), hormonal replacement therapy (principally conjugated estrogen) in older women (OR, 4.20; 95% CI, 1.82 to 9.71), and antibiotic therapy prior to illness (OR, 1.96; 95% CI, 0.86 to 4.37). The problems of studying self-selected cases that may lead to alternative explanations for these findings are also discussed. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1342505/
Abstract: What happens to children who develop moderate or severe malnutrition? What is done for them? Keeping in mind these questions, the present research was undertaken with the following objectives: to assess the nutritional status of children who develop moderate or severe malnutrition before the age of 5 years, after a period from 2 to 4 years after diagnosis; to assess the nutritional status of the under 5-year old siblings of these children; to study the influence of nutritional programs available in the community for the improvement of the nutritional status of the malnourished children; and to identify factors interfering with nutrition of these children during the study period. After a period of 2 to 4 years from the time of diagnosis of moderate or severe malnutrition the authors tried to locate the families of 61 malnourished children of Porto Alegre, RS (Brazil). The mothers their substitutes were interviewed and the children and siblings under 5 years of age were weighed and measured. Thirty-nine children were located. Of these, 4 (10%) died and 22 (56%) presented an increase of at least 10% in weight for age. Of the 35 children who survived, 29 (82%) still presented some degree of malnutrition (weight/age < or = 90% of the standard), 25 (71%) were stunted (height/age < or = 95%), and 5 (14%) were wasted (weight/height < or = 90%). The nutritional status of the 5-year old siblings was similar to that of the malnourished children.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS) 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1342504/
Abstract: An epidemiological survey was undertaken to fulfil one of the conditions required for the establishment of the Nutritional Surveillance System, on the basis of data from 1988. In this survey an anthropometric examination was employed for the purpose of discovering the prevalence and the kinds of protein energy malnutrition among children under five years of age who had been assisted at Health Centers of the Municipal Health Department of Curitiba, Paran (Brazil). Of a sample population of 4,213 children it was found (by the Gmez criterion) that 28.1% had malnutrition 3.6% of this percentage being of second or third degree. By the use of the Seoane-Latham criterion as modified by Batista Filho, 19.7% of the children presented some kind of malnutrition. The distribution of the sample in centiles showed that it contained an excess of children in the first centiles after 6 th months of age as compared with the reference population. This excess was more evident in the 12 to 24-months age group. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1342527/
Abstract: Diarrhea and pneumonia are common diseases in children aged under one year, for which there are simple therapeutic measures. However, infant mortality due to these diseases is still very high, varying markedly according to socio-economic status. The characteristics of children who died (cases) and of those who were hospitalized with diarrhea or pneumonia, but survived (controls), were studied. The following groups of variables were studied: socio-economic, environmental and biological conditions, nutritional status and breast-feeding. Information on cases and controls was collected from hospital records and through home interviews. Important losses occurred in the latter: 40% of cases and 50% of controls were not interviewed. There were no significant differences between cases who were included and those who were not, in terms of age, sex or place of residence. To estimate relative risks of prognostic factors unconditional Logistic Regression was used to calculate the odds ratios and their 95% confidence intervals. Prematurity, low birth weight, weight/age deficit, presence of edema and poor general status at hospital admission were prognostic factors for hospital case-fatality. In relation to the anthropometric variables, it was not possible to conclude for certain whether the increased case-fatality was linearly or non-linearly (threshold) associated with nutritional deficit. The duration of breast-feeding was only associated with case-fatality for pneumonia. Socio-economic factors were not important for the prognosis of children admitted to hospital with diarrhea or pneumonia. Some of the expected risk factor associations were not detected, maybe due to the small sample size (resulting from the high losses) which was insufficient to show small differences. In this study the biological conditions of children with diarrhea or pneumonia appeared to be the important prognostic factors for hospital case-fatality. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1342535/
Abstract: The limitations and possible uses of the body mass index (BMI) or Qutelet index, calculated as the ratio of body mass (kg), and squared stature (m), as an indicator of the nutritional status of adults, are reviewed. The cut-off values for overweight (BMI > or = 25) and chronic energy deficiency (BMI < 18.5) are discussed in the light of the available international literature. Even though BMI does not assess the body composition (BC) of individuals, the case with which it is measured is a strong argument for the use of BMI in epidemiological studies associated otherwise with other anthropometric measurement until such a time as simpler field methods of the assessment of BC are developed. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1342323/
Abstract: Self-reported pregravid weight is a commonly used baseline indicator of nutritional status in prenatal weight gain studies. This study assesses the validity of self-reported pregravid weight in 1591 gravidas who entered into prenatal care within the first trimester of pregnancy from 1986 to 1988 at the University of Maryland Medical Systems. A significant difference of 4.3 lb (t = 25.56, P < 0.001) was found between self-reported pregravid weight and estimated pregravid weight. Limits of agreement (interval within which 95% of the differences between the self-reported and measured weights) were constructed by population characteristics. Multiple linear regression models with estimated pregravid weight as the dependent variable were estimated by self-reported pregravid weight, body weight, height, age, race, education, insurance status, and marital status groups. A model with self-reported pregravid weight as the sole independent variable was found to explain 88% of the variance in estimated pregravid weight. Results of this study suggest that the validity of self-report pregravid weight varies with sociodemographic and anthropometric factors. Adjustment by a simple regression equation can minimize error in self-reported pregravid weight. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1342659/
Abstract: The aim of this research is to assess the mental representation associated to visual stimuli for anorexic patients. Two studies are described. The first one is a systematic observation of food representation for five patients within a 3-month period. The disruptive factors, mainly related to food visual aspect decrease with time. Consequently, a second experiment was carried out. Two groups were compared as far as the food mental representation related to visual food stimuli is concerned: a group of anorexic patients and a group of control subjects selected according to sex, age, and educational standard. The results show the existence of habituation process as there is a decrease of disruptions concerning the mental representation of food color, texture and shape. This result must be confirmed on a larger sample. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1342687/
Abstract: In normal subjects fed western-mixed diets, in the fasting state, 39.6% of the variance of calciuria is accounted for by net acid excretion and 4% by sulfaturia. In the postprandial period, net acid accounts for 6.9% and sulfaturia for 11.8% of the variance of calciuria. As expected, after a load of ammonium chloride, net acid excretion exceeded the importance of sulfaturia (36.2% vs. 8.4%) and the opposite was observed after DL-methionine load (1.5% and 46.2%). A group of normal subjects fed vegetarian diets was also investigated. The excretion of the three variables measured were significantly reduced in this group when compared with that of the former group. In the fasting state the variance of calciuria was accounted mainly by net acid excretion (85.7%). In the postprandial state net acid (4.9%) and sulfate (2.2%) had much less importance as determinants of calciuria. It is concluded that in spite of their metabolic relationship, net acid and sulfate excretions are independent determinants of calciuria. The relative importance of each variable changes as a function of metabolic circumstances. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1342519/
Abstract: The association of cigarette smoking, physical activity at work, and social class with total cholesterol and with high and low density lipoprotein cholesterol were examined in a random sample of 238 males, of 18 years of age, of Rosario, Argentina. The mean (mg/dl) total serum cholesterol of the whole sample was 174.7, the high density lipoprotein cholesterol 52.8, and the low density lipoprotein cholesterol 121.5. Black tobacco consumers, evenly distributed by social class, had higher levels of total and low density lipoprotein cholesterol. Total cholesterol was higher in the high social class, differently from what smokers' distribution by social class, would lead one to expect. While a highly negative association was found between social class and physical activity at work, there were no significant differences in lipoprotein levels between manual and non-manual workers. It is possible that the nutritional differences by social class still prevail over the smoking habit in their influence on the lipoprotein levels in these subjects. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1342753/
Abstract: The project aims at determining how aging influences nutritional status (as determined by measurements and indicators from clinical evaluation, anthropometric, laboratory, and biophysical tests) in a Chronic degenerative disease burden; 5) Use of drugs and medications (both Western and traditional) and 6) physical activity as the direct mediators of nutritional status of the elderly. A chain of causal determinants of each of the six mediators was developed. The primary target population is composed of persons from 60 to 75 years of age who are migrants to the metropolis from the same rural province. They share the same religious practices and ethic heritage in common and are free living (non-institutionalized) in the community. We shall enroll, in a stratified randomized manner (stratified for danger, urban community, and existence of participating second generation relative), 400 elderly persons in two groups: Group 1A: 100 males and 100 females who migrated more than 40 years earlier from the province to the metropolis; Group 1B: 100 males and 100 females who migrated less than 20 years earlier from the province to the metropolis. In a "controlled cross-sectional survey" format these represent two exposure groups: long-residency and short residency. A secondary contrast group will be gender specific, second generation relatives (sons or nephews for older men; daughters or nieces for older women), 400 in all, ie, one for each first generation (elderly) subject. They will range from 25 to 42 years of age and will also be living in low-income peri-urban communities of the metropolis. The tests from the overall battery of measurement indicators, appropriate to young adults, will be applied. The primary contrast is G1A vs G1B, aggregated or deseggregated by gender, using 1) relative risk based on long vs short urban exposure and 2) conventional parametric and non-parametric intergroup comparisons. The secondary contrast is within individual generation pairs (father-son, uncle-nephew; mother-daughter, aunt-nice) using conventional parametric or non-parametric tests for dependent variables. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1342755/
Abstract: Jakarta is the capital and biggest city of Indonesia with a total population of 10 million. The National Census Office revealed a rapid increase in population through 1985 to 1990. This rapid increase has brought many devastating effects on various aspects of life such as housing, food stock and food production, health and environmental conditions, education, socio-economic and cultural life and political stability. All of these factors contribute to malnutrition in the city as well as in the country as a whole. Data obtained from the Municipal Health Offices showed an unsatisfactory health status having a crude birth rate (CBR) of 2.80%; crude death rate (CDR) of 0.68%; and family size of 5.5. Undernutrition among under-five children still is alarming with a prevalence of 27.91%. Anemia also afflicts a great number of pregnant mothers (70%) and preschool children (38.6%). Nutrition problems are worst in urban areas with their high population density; moderate and severe PEM is 5.63% in urban areas compared with 3.7% moderate PEM and no PEM in rural areas. Jakarta is experiencing rapid urbanization. The presence of slums, air and water pollution in city is a paramount factor leading to poor environmental conditions. The existing health system cannot keep pace with the increasing occurrence of infectious diseases brought about by these unfavorable conditions. Unemployment and underemployment as well as rising costs of foodstuffs cause inadequate food availability at the household level. Due to the grinding poverty experienced by the low socio-economic groups, female workers occupy almost one-third of Indonesia's labor force, hence inadequate care is given to children. All these are factors aggravating the nutritional problems in the country. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1342754/
Abstract: Kuala Lumpur is the capital city of Malaysia with an estimated population of 1.55 million. Approximately 12% of the population live in squatter settlements occupying about 7% of the city total area. The squatter settlements generally are provided with basic amenities such as piped water, toilet facilities and electricity. Health indicators for the overall population of Kuala Lumpur are better off than for the rest of the country; however, intra-city differentials prevail along ethnic and socio-economic lines. Malays and Indians have higher rates for stillbirths, and neonatal, infant and toddler mortality than the Chinese. The wide disparity in the socio-economic status between the advantaged and the poor groups in the city is reflected in the dietary practices and nutritional status of young children from these communities. The percentage of preschool children from urban poor households with inadequate intakes of calories and nutrients is two to three times higher than those from the advantaged group. Compared to rural infants, a lower percentage of urban infants are breastfed. A lower percentage of Malays from the urban advantaged group breastfed, compared with the urban poor group. The reversed trend is found for the Chinese community. Growth attainment of young children from the urban poor is worse than the urban advantaged, though better than the rural poor. Health and nutritional practices implications related to both undernutrition and overnutrition are discussed, to illustrate the twin challenges of malnutrition in the city. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1342756/
Abstract: Summarizing the general characteristics of food consumption pattern and dietary status of the country's central urban region, the following are brought to focus: Metro Manila as compared to all urban and rural areas consumes less cereal grains but more sugars and fats and oils; consumes more of the high quality protein foods such as meat, poultry, eggs, milk and dried beans; and consumes less of fruits and vegetables. Availability and affordability of foods in the respective sectors could have affected to a large extent the magnitude of consumption differences. Although urban households had the advantage of a more varied and quantitatively higher food consumption, their nutrient intake was not really very different from rural households. Metro Manila still had a 13.7 percent calorie gap in its intake in 1987, and intake of ascorbic acid was notably lower than the rural sector. However, intake of thiamin and riboflavin as well as fat was appreciably higher in the metropolis. Briefly identifying the trends in food consumption with reference to six survey year periods from 1974 to 1987 (excluding 1984 and 1985), Metro Manila diet disclosed the following: increasing trend for sugars and syrups as well as dried beans, nuts and seeds and decreasing trend for cereal products, fruits and vegetables and condiments and others. There was a decrease in overall food consumption among Metro Manila households during the economic crisis that transpired in 1984 and 1985. However, there was a steady consumption of rice which was under price control, and a significant increase in the intake of some food items particularly green leafy and yellow vegetables which were among the cheapest food items available in Metro Manila markets. Some food adjustments were evidently resorted to during the period of economic dislocation showing the resiliency of the urban population. Metro Manila has been apparently drawing inordinately large amounts of the food supply from the rest of the country. There is therefore an "urban bias" of food supply to Metro Manila, that is, there is a much higher demand capacity for Metro Manila to draw food supply because of its higher income level and bigger population. The impact of this situation in terms of nutrition and food supply in the rural areas should be carefully examined so as not to put the rural areas in extreme disadvantage. FNRI nutrition surveys have shown that dietary energy inadequacy remains rampant in Metro Manila, while protein continues to be a marginal problem.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS) 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1342758/
Abstract: The size of urban population in developing Asian countries grows at a faster rate than in the developed West. Urban cities in India are being crushed by the onslaught of population growth, migration of rural poor and industrialization, the urbanization in turn inducing social and economic changes. During the decade 1972-81, India's population grew by 25%, urban population by over 40% and that of Bangalore city by 76%. The 1991 Census records the population of Bangalore city at 4.1 million, though the decennial growth rate seems to have begun to decline. The current sex ratio is 900 females to 1000 males with nearly 50% of the population literate and the density of population at 2200 per km2. With the rapidly expanding "conurbation" (continuous urbanization), the number of slum settlements have increased with Bangalore having recorded the highest annual growth rate of 27.4% in its slum population accounting for more than 10% of the share of its population in the slums within the corporation limits. 29% of the population in urban areas in the State is under the poverty line and the percentage under the poverty line may be higher in the city. In this situation the nutrition of the mother and child is most vulnerable. The incidence of low birth weight recorded in a Government Hospital in Bangalore was between 30-40% and the IMR at 47/1000 births. Incidence of child mortality was 5% for children under 1 year and 3% for preschool children. The percent distribution of PEM in preschool children was 41, 31 and 1 for Gomez Grades I, II and III respectively.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS) 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1342757/
Abstract: Bangkok, the capital of Thailand, is a large city of about six million people. According to the rapid growth of economy, Bangkok faces to the problems of urbanization and industrialization. Non-communicable disease such as cardiovascular diseases, cancers are the leading causes of death. There is a trend of increasing air pollution in the congested areas and industrialized zones, with the increase over the ambient air quality standard involving suspended particulate matter. Other public health problems include the sanitation of restaurants, the quality of drinking water and coloring agents in food, drug addiction especially in young males. Poor hygiene in drug injection is one of the major causes of HIV transmission. AIDS, originally our imported disease, needs urgent prevention by health education and counseling. Improvements in government and non-government health care resources are still needed. A good cooperative city health plan serves a practical purpose, especially for the solution of the air and water pollution in Bangkok. However, pilot operational research on nutrition, health and environment in relation to city health planning needs to be discussed further for more effective implementation. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1342759/
Abstract: The paper presents the nutritional situation of Dhaka. Dhaka is the capital city of Bangladesh with an area of 414 square Km. The population size of Dhaka city is about 7 millions of which nearly 3 millions live in the slums. Socio-economic and socio-cultural situation has been discussed. In the pre-school children, protein-energy malnutrition (PEM) appeared to be a serious problems. A high rate of advanced vitamin A deficiency along with severe PEM has been demonstrated. A recent survey showed that slum children below five years of age had higher prevalence of acute (11%) and chronic (50%) malnutrition. This paper also discussed the nutritional status of school children and pregnant women. A national nutrition survey revealed that average energy intake by the industrial laborers was only 74% of the daily requirement. To date no data is available on the nutritional situation of the adolescent and elderly people. Poverty, lack of knowledge, illnesses, lack of sufficient services and socio-cultural barriers are the major causes of nutritional problem. There are several Government and Non-Government organizations in Dhaka city working for improving community health and nutritional status through a number of interventions; such as health and nutrition education, vitamin A capsule distribution, immunization, growth monitoring and feeding through rehabilitation centers. A positive impact of vitamin A oral dosing has been demonstrated and improved nutritional status by nutrition education and feeding through the centers have been reported. Community participation and sustainability of the program have also been discussed. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1342762/
Abstract: Current social organization of cities is unable to respond to increases in the population fast enough to ensure adequate physical and social functioning of all inhabitants. New social structures in the organization of cities is changing the situation of disadvantaged and malnourished people by changing their access to resources. Resources include a number of non-economic ones that can contribute to improve health and nutritional status. The use of these resources depends on individual choices by people. The nature of basic needs predisposes these choices to include ones that are economically irrational and an inefficient use of resources from economic standpoints. The combination of restricted access to resources and inherent inefficiencies in their use determine the health and nutritional situation of people. Indicators of change in the number of choices and the elasticities of benefits associated with them would recognise both the non-competitive and the market aspects of the new urban social organization. Indicators of the number and type of choices available to people, associated with the nutritional and health benefits derived from those choices may be tools for use in urban planning to support new initiatives for groups in fast growing areas where malnutrition is prevalent. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1342761/
Abstract: Rapid economic development resulted in urbanization of Korea, since 1960s. Seoul is the center of politics, finance, education and culture of Korea. Mostly young people have migrated to large cities, such as Seoul and Pusan. For instance, the population in Seoul city was 2.5 million in 1960 but increased to 10 million in 1990. Presently, total population of Seoul and Pusan, second largest city, composed of approximately 50% of whole national population. The economic distribution among urban people became extremely uneven creating a large gap between low and high income group. As a consequence, both under and over nutritional problems coexist. According to the national nutrition survey data, animal food, such as meat, fish and dairy products have been consumed about 6 times more, and cereal consumption was far less in higher income group. In terms of nutrients intake, 28% of total caloric intake comes from lipids and 15-17% of total caloric intake from protein. This was found in higher income group, while low income group consumed more than 80% of total caloric intake from carbohydrate. The trends of major causes of death in Korea have changed. The degenerative diseases, cerebral disorder, high blood pressure became leading cause of death in recent years. Malignant neoplasm and diabetes followed second leading cause of death in Korea. Undernutrition and nutritional insufficiencies, anemia and low growth rate continue to exist among low income group. According to the annual death rate by age group, the age between 34-54 was the highest in the world.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS) 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1342760/
Abstract: Beijing is the capital of China with the population of 10.32 million in 1990 and the area of 1687.8 km2. It is the economic and cultural center of the country. Since the founding of new China, the development of Beijing city has been very fast. The gross national product (GNP) of Beijing in 1988 is 2.78 times the average GNP of the whole country. The sanitary institution has increased 71 times from 1949 to 1989. The prevalence of infectious diseases decreased significantly. The infant mortality is 11.6 per thousand approaching the figure of developed countries. The main food products increased rapidly. The grain, meat and egg increased from 100.7 kg and 0.48 kg per capita per year in 1949 to 217.1 kg and 20.17 kg in 1988 respectively. The food consumption of residents have been increasing consistently with the increasing of food production in Beijing. The food available in Beijing is well both in quantity and in quality. The results of the nutritional survey in 1985 showed that the daily average energy intake was 2549 kcal per capita. The average protein intake was 70g per person per day. The fat intake as the percentage of the total energy was 25.7. The average nutrients intake of Beijing residents meets the Chinese RDA basically. The nutritional status of people living in the city is good in general. But there are still some nutritional problem exist. Zn and Fe deficiencies anemia are common in infants and children along with the decreasing rate of breast feeding. Riboflavin, Zn and Ca intakes are inadequate in a lot of adults and the elderly.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS) 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1342881/
Abstract: Oral challenge tests were carried out with sodium metabisulfite solution doses of 5, 10, 25, 50 and 100 mg, dissolved in 20 ml of citric acid, and administered to 20 children aged 7-14 years with steroid-dependent bronchial asthma. A single-blind challenge protocol was performed initially and the positive responses were confirmed by double-blind challenge. Initially, 6 of 20 presented a positive reaction, confirmed in 4 of 20 by double-blind challenge. Only 1 child was clinically suspected of exhibiting intolerance to this agent. The prevalence of the challenge test using sodium metabisulfite in children with steroid-dependent bronchial asthma was 20%. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1342887/
Abstract: Determination of total and specific IgE using reactive test strips may afford a useful screening method in the in vitro diagnosis of allergens owing to easy use and possible correlation with established methods. T.D. LETI reactive strips for the semiquantitative determination of total IgE is a method combining classical fundamentals (sandwich anti-IgE-IgE-labeled anti-IgE) and the use of strip methods. It also permits determination of specific IgE levels in a wide range of Mediterranean and food (10) allergens. In a preliminary assessment, this method was correlated with isotopic PRIST for total IgE and with Phadebas RAST for specific IgE. The most important features are: a) no additional equipment besides serum or whole blood; b) cheaper and faster than PRIST for total IgE; c) correlation coefficient of 0.88 in the proposed range (n = 20) and 0.91 (n = 25) in the 10-500 U/ml range for PRIST/T.D. LETI for total IgE; d) specific IgE determination strips present sensitivity and specificity of 88 and 91%, respectively, in 180 allergens assayed in relation to Phadebas RAST. In conclusion, the in vitro diagnosis of allergens using reactive strips is currently a practical and simple method. By optimizing the top of the scale for total IgE and reducing the volume and/or time in specific IgE, it may prove to be an important screening method. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1342884/
Abstract: Four farmers with a positive bronchial challenge test to either L. destructor or T. putrescentiae had bronchial histamine challenge every second month during a year. In the same year, monthly samples of house dust, grain, straw and hay were analyzed for their content of house dust mites and storage mites. The exposure to house dust mites and storage mites differed between farmers. Significant changes in histamine reactivity were found, but no association with time of year or mite counts was observed. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1391109/
Abstract: Total parenteral nutrition (TPN) for a prolonged period of time can be associated with bone pain and osteomalacia. We performed a study on the phosphorus/calcium metabolism and serum levels of osteocalcin (BGP), a protein proposed as constituting the bone turnover index in 31 patients receiving TPN (age 57 +/- 14 years, 22 males and 9 females) diagnosed as suffering from pathology of the digestive tract or geno-urinary pathology. The duration of the TPN was from 9.1 +/- 6.6 days (range 2-31 days). We observed and increase of FA (178 +/- 101 U/l), with a significant decrease of BGP (2.2 +/- 2.0 ng/ml vs. 3.7 +/- 1.3 ng/ml in controls; p less than 0.001). Serum levels of phosphorus and calcium corrected according to proteins were within normal limits. Hypercalciuria was detected in the urine (328 +/- 278 mg/24 hours), and phosphaturia (607 +/- 522 mg/24 hours). Based on the BGP results, we can conclude that patients subjected to TPN for a short period of time undergo a decrease in bone turnover. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1390792/
Abstract: Adolescents and young adults adopt eating patterns which may well form the basis of their dietary habits for much of their lives. At the same time, this section of the population can come under considerable pressure from the world at large, to conform to the current trends in fashion, language, behavior, or foods. Recent developments in Western dietary practice have tended to leave adolescents vulnerable to low intakes of energy and of some nutrients, as snacking accounts for an increasing proportion of dietary intake. Achieving a balanced diet is more difficult when the most popular and widely available snack foods are high in sugar or in fat. Results from major British studies, together with a review of data from other developed countries, support the need for more effective dietary education for adolescents and for children generally. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1391111/
Abstract: Pathologies involving tumours of the neck are an important group of neoplasias. The tumours themselves are often the cause of malnutrition, and this may be aggravated in these patients by other factors such as: excess of alcohol and cigarettes, anatomical location of the tumour next to the digestive tract and the application of cyto-reducing treatment applied previously. The main purpose of the present study is to analyze the possible effect of hospital diets during the postoperative period in laryngectomized patients, on the development of malnutrition. For this purpose 49 patients were studied, all diagnosed consecutively during the last year as suffering from epidermoid carcinoma of the larynx, subjected to 24 total laryngectomies, 4 partial laryngectomies and 21 supraglottic laryngectomies. A conventional diet was administered at random to 21 patients, and a commercial enteral diet to the remaining 28. The most important conclusions were as follows: a) high incidence of harmful habits, b) positive nutritional state of the patients upon admittance, c) high incidence of malnutrition one week after the operation, which was maintained virtually in the same proportion to the time spent in hospital, d) the lack of influence of the nutritional state by type of diet administered, e) the possible influence on malnutrition by type of surgery performed, location of the tumour (pyriform sinus) and high incidence of complications usually developed. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1391108/
Abstract: Determination of the nickel content in 49 commercial solutions used in parenteral nutrition, by means of atomic absorption spectroscopy in a graphite kiln. Important differences were found between the different components (less than 5 to 23.000 ppb). The largest concentrations of Ni were found in sodium chloride, phosphate salts, 10% calcium chloride and 2M potassium chloride, whereas the aminoacid, glucose and lipid solutions contained the smallest concentrations. The amount of Nickel in the preparations varied depending on the supplier and different salts of the compound itself. The Nickel intake in 2 TPN solutions with high and low concentrations of Ni (827 and 270 micrograms respectively) was also analyzed, and this intake was higher than the estimated amount absorbed in the diet. In the case of the TPN with a high Nickel content, this was higher than the level detected as being the cause of sensitivity reactions in patients sensitive to Nickel. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1391110/
Abstract: The purpose of this retrospective study is to ascertain the physiopathological characteristics of patients on parenteral nutrition (PN), the types of diet used and duration of treatment. Presentation of epidemiological results and evolution of 637 adults receiving PN after a five-year period of nutritional follow-up, conducted by a Nutrition Team (NT) in hospital. For the purpose of this study, we used the Follow-Up charts of all the patients treated with PN from 1986-1990. The results obtained lead us to affirm that most patients suffered a malignant gastrointestinal process, that the duration of the PN was reduced significantly during the five-year term, mainly using dietary protocols, and that there was a gradual increase in preparations of nutrient units subjected to controls compared to the total prepared by the Pharmacy Department. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1391014/
Abstract: Food-borne diseases nosocomial outbreaks due to Salmonella enterica strains have a high incidence nowadays. We describe here an outbreak that occurred in July 1990 in the Malaga University Hospital, that only involves one shift of health care workers. Salmonella enterica was detected in stool samples from HCW and a first analysis revealed the presence of two different antibiotic susceptibility patterns (resistotypes) among isolated strains. Two months after the outbreak started, the CNVIS (Majadahonda, Spain) confirmed the presence of two different serotypes (bovismorbificans and enteritidis). The delayed availability of the results (due to the lack of specific sera needed in most of the clinical Laboratories) was responsible for finishing only a partial and restricted epidemiologic study in terms of source identification for one particular serotype as well as for the antimicrobial resistance studies. The molecular identification techniques, particularly the electrophoretic protein profile could overcome these problems. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1390616/
Abstract: The availabilities of nutrients from a representative rural Mexican diet (RMD) and a representative urban Mexican diet (UMD) were evaluated by balance experiments in sixteen Mexican women. Compared with UMD, the plant-based RMD led to a higher number of defaecations and higher faecal excretion of dry matter, fat, nitrogen and energy. Apparent digestibility of N from RMD was only 67% compared with 90% from UMD. N balance was 0.4 and 2.6 g/d with RMD and UMD respectively (P < 0.001). Apparent digestibility of energy was 89 and 95% from RMD and UMD respectively (P < 0.001). Calculation of the metabolizable energy (ME) using Atwater's (Atwater & Bryant, 1900) general factors overestimates the determined ME in RMD by 8%. The Food and Agriculture Organization/World Health Organization/United Nations University (World Health Organization, 1985) recommended factors for correction of digestibility of fibre intake overestimate energy and protein absorption from RMD. The diets provided similar amounts of zinc, and its apparent absorption from RMD was 0.5 mg/d (4.6%) and its balance was 0.1 mg/d. This compared with values for UMD of 1.6 mg/d (16%) and 1.2 mg/d respectively. Iron intake was higher from RMD (17.4 v. 11.6 mg/d; P < 0.01), but apparent absorption was 17 v. 35% and balance was 2.7 and 3.8 mg/d (P < 0.001) for RMD and UMD respectively. RMD also contained more calcium (745 v. 410 mg/d) but apparent absorption from RMD was negative (-136 v. 15 mg/d) and balance was more negative (-197 v. -77 mg/d; P < 0.05). Thus, the content of these minerals is not low in the rural diet but their bioavailabilities are poor. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1391107/
Abstract: Hypocaloric peripheral parenteral nutrition (HPPN) appears to be indicated in patients with moderate malnutrition subjected to a short period of fasting following surgery. Our objective is to determine whether or not the intake of hypocaloric parenteral solutions containing aminoacid is useful in postsurgical patients, by means of a study of different nutritional evaluation parameters. A study was performed on 35 postsurgical patients who fulfilled at least 2 of the following criteria indicating malnutrition: 1) albumin levels less than 3 g/dl; 2) prealbumin levels less than 21 mg/; 3) body weight less than 95% of ideal weight. The patients were divided into 3 groups: Group I consisted of 15 patients treated with conventional fluid therapy, Group II consisted of 10 patients treated with nutritional support based on glucose and aminoacid and Group III was comprised of 10 patients also treated with a nutritional therapy based on glycerol and aminoacid. The most significant data included a rapid recovery of short term proteins (prealbumin and retinol-binding protein) and a less negative nitrogen balance 5 days afterwards in both the glucose and glycerol groups, both of which were statistically significant. With regard to complications studied, there was a greater incidence of suture dehiscence in the control group than in the groups under treatment (13.3% compared to 50%). Our conclusion is that HPPN is a valid nutritional support measure in postsurgical patients in certain clinical situations and circumstances, although further controlled, randomized studies should be considered, during both the pre and post operative periods of these patients in order to clearly indicate how and when nutritional therapy should be applied. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1391131/
Abstract: To explore the relation between esophageal cancer and dietary trace elements in humans, we estimated the average daily intake of zinc, copper, iron, selenium, molybdenum, silicon, cadmium, and nickel in 21 Chinese communes, where the annual mortality rate from esophageal cancer among the population 30 years of age and over ranged from 0 to 495/100,000 person-years. We also estimated the relative level of calcium consumption. Zinc and copper intake were inversely related to esophageal cancer mortality, and calcium intake levels was positively related to esophageal cancer mortality. The predicted esophageal cancer mortality among a vegetarian population with a high level of dietary calcium and a low level of dietary zinc was 5.3 times as high as that in a vegetarian population with a low level of dietary calcium and a high level of dietary zinc. The influence of a high level of dietary calcium in a vegetarian population may be explained by a reduction in the absorption of dietary zinc. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1391146/
Abstract: Elderly is particularly at risk of malnutrition: he is not able to feed himself adequately, it is then important to attain correct intakes using also artificial enteral nutritional techniques (nasogastric tube, gastrostomy, etc.). These techniques may lead to complications (ab ingestis pneumonia, metabolic complications, alvus disorders): the use of artificially nutrition in the elderly must be carefully evaluated. 257 patients (M = 180, F = 77) aged 65 or more, mainly affected by neoplastic diseases (n 195) and by neurological and vascular diseases (n 62). The feeding route were evaluated in this study: 74% by nasogastric tube, 13% by gastrostomy, 11% by jejunostomy. In a group of 55 patients similar concerning clinical and nutritional conditions we evaluated at the beginning of enteral feeding and four months later, caloric/protein intake, body weight and plasmatic albumin. In patients fed by nasogastric tube a mean intake of 1300 +/- 365 Kcal n.p./die, with a protein rate of 58.5 +/- 16.9 g/die was attained; by gastrostomy 1450 +/- 324 Kcal n.p./die and 65.5 +/- 16 g/die; by jejunostomy 1219 +/- 398 Kcal n.p./die and 53.3 +/- 21 g/die. The compliance to enteral nutrition was well in 37% of patients night administration was performed. Clinical complications: nausea and vomiting were observed in 9 patients with nasogastric tube, in 1 patient with gastrostomy and in 3 patients with jejunostomy; diarrhea has been noticed in 6 patients with nasogastric tube and in 1 patient with jejunostomy. Mechanical complications; nasogastric tube (n 189): 35 displacements, 7 breakages, 4 obstructions; pharyngostomy (n 6): 2 displacements and 1 obstruction; gastrostomy (n 33): 3 displacements; jejunostomy (n 29): 2 misplacements.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS) 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1391159/
Abstract: This descriptive study used both quantitative and qualitative research methods to examine the food and nutrient intake, food purchasing patterns and budgeting strategies of 29 sole-parent low-income families with dependent children living in Corio Shire, Victoria, in 1989-90. Expenditure on food and nonalcoholic beverages when compared with the average for all Australian households showed that the study families allocated a greater proportion, but similar amounts of money to cereals, dairy products, fruit and vegetables and miscellaneous foods, and less to meat, nonalcoholic beverages and food eaten away from home. Despite large differences in the amount of money spent in the first and second weeks of a social security payment period, the nutrient density of the parents' diets was maintained at a similar level in both weeks. The only exception was vitamin C, for which the median intake was significantly lower in the second week, consistent with reduced purchases of fruit and vegetables in the same period. In interviews with 13 of the parents a variety of purchasing and budgeting strategies were described, indicating common concerns with making the most of their limited resources. The data from this study support the notion that low-income families give priority to food purchases above other expenses such as recreation. They also support the view that low-income families are concerned about health and nutrition and manage to consume nutritionally sound diets under difficult circumstances. Nutrition education programs could support them in this endeavour. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1391160/
Abstract: Six preventive health behaviours have been frequently identified as having the potential to reduce mortality and morbidity during infancy: breast-feeding until the age of six months; no solid food until after four months of age; immunisation against whooping cough, diphtheria, poliomyelitis and tetanus; the use of a baby capsule to restrain the infant when travelling in a motor vehicle; regular attendance at a health care provider for preventive health checks; and no maternal smoking. This study surveyed 191 primiparous women four months after the birth of their babies to explore the proportion of parents who perform the recommended preventive health behaviours and the association among the behaviours. Thirty-nine per cent of the women reported that they were no longer breast-feeding by the time their infant was four months old; 35 per cent had introduced solids before 16 weeks of age; 35 per cent did not always use a baby capsule when travelling with their baby in their car, 25 per cent did not regularly attend the early childhood health centres and 22 per cent smoked. Forty-eight per cent of the sample were performing four or fewer of the six preventive health behaviours and 21 per cent were performing three or fewer. The relationship between performing each preventive health behaviour and a range of demographic variables was investigated. A logistic regression indicated that performing three or fewer of the health behaviours was associated with lower levels of education, having public health insurance and being born in a country other than Australia. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1391130/
Abstract: A cohort of 1,904 vegetarians and persons leading a health-conscious life-style in the Federal Republic of Germany was identified in 1978. After a follow-up of 11 years, mortality from all causes was reduced by one-half compared with the general population [the standardized mortality ratio (SMR) was 0.44 for men, 0.53 for women]. Among the 858 men, 111 deaths were observed, with 255 expected; among the 1,046 women, 114 deaths were observed, with 215 expected. The lowest mortality was found for cardiovascular diseases (SMR = 0.39 for men, 0.46 for women); in particular, for ischemic heart diseases, mortality was reduced to one-third of that expected. Cancer mortality was reduced by one-half in men (SMR = 0.48), but only by one-quarter in women (SMR = 0.74). The deficit in cancer deaths was mainly observed for lung cancer and gastrointestinal cancers in males and for gastrointestinal cancers in females. Deaths from diseases of the respiratory and digestive systems were also reduced by about 50%. An excess of deaths occurred only for anemia. When the strict and the moderate vegetarians were analyzed separately, the strongest differential was found for ischemic heart diseases, which were much less frequent among strict vegetarians for both sexes. Some nondietary factors, such as higher socioeconomic status, virtual absence of smoking, and lower body mass index, may also have contributed to the lower mortality of the study participants. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1391270/
Abstract: The aim of the present study was to evaluate the IgE-mediated response as a predictable index of immunosensitization to different types of feeding (breast milk, adapted formula, soya formula and serum protein hydrolyzate formula) in the first days of life. The study population included 231 newborns (128 males and 103 females). There was a family history of atopy (at least 1 parent with an atopic disease) in 116 subjects at risk for allergy. 115 newborns were without any family history of atopy. The results showed significantly higher total IgE levels on the 4th day than in cord serum in the whole group of newborns. The same result was obtained comparing subjects at risk and controls separately. No significant difference was detectable between serum IgE levels in the cord blood of the four groups. Conversely, a significant increase in IgE levels between cord and 4th day blood in soya-fed and adapted-formula-fed babies was noticed. This increase did not occur in neonates fed breast milk and serum protein hydrolyzate. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1391278/
Abstract: This study examines the effect of early suckling of mothers giving birth by cesarean section on milk ejection periods. Colostrum and milk ejection periods of 20 mothers who suckled their infants early and those of 20 who suckled late and provided supplementary food to their infants were observed. The colostrum and milk ejection periods of the early-suckled compared to the late-suckled group showed a significant statistical difference. The results show that the chance of the infants born by cesarean section of being fed by maternal milk could be increased by early and regular suckling of the maternal milk. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1391264/
Abstract: Neonatal respiratory distress syndrome (RDS) is characterized by an immature surfactant phospholipid pattern. We aimed to study the evolution of surfactant phospholipids over a 6-day period, before and after surfactant replacement therapy with Curosurf, and to investigate possible interactions with exogenous phospholipids administered during total parenteral nutrition (TPN). Seventeen premature infants with RDS were randomly assigned to receive TPN with lipids or without (glucose group). Both groups showed a similar evolution of the surfactant phospholipids. At day 6, the surfactant composition had changed towards a mature human surfactant pattern except for phosphatidylglycerol which remained low (1%), compensated for by a high phosphatidylinositol and phosphatidylserine proportion (13.3%), Phospholipid subcomponents in plasma remained unchanged in both groups. Plasma total cholesterol (151 +/- 18 vs. 113 +/- 6 mg/dl, p less than 0.05) and cholesteryl esters (172 +/- 20 vs. 113 +/- 9 mg/dl, p less than 0.01) were higher in the glucose than in the lipid group. Total calorie intake was significantly higher in the lipid group (85 +/- 4 vs. 64 +/- 6 kcal/kg.day, p less than 0.01). 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1391246/
Abstract: Postoperative feeding regimens after cleft lip and palate repair continue to be a controversial issue. This study was designed to test the feasibility of immediate unrestricted feeding after lip and palate closure with attention to operative outcome or complications. A retrospective analysis of two feeding protocols involved 80 infants with both unilateral and bilateral defects. Protocol A utilized tube and syringe feedings, and protocol B utilized unrestricted bottle or breast feedings. There were no instances of lip or palate wound complications in the unrestricted group. We conclude that immediate unrestricted feeding may be instituted safely, thus improving and simplifying postoperative management after cleft lip and/or palate repair. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1392019/
Abstract: Chemically processed, hydrogenated fats, such as margarine, have been implicated in the aetiology of inflammatory bowel disease. Toxic by-products may occur in their production or during frying and cooking. A survey of dietary oil usage was conducted among Asians in Leicester, comparing inflammatory bowel disease patients with healthy controls. Two groups were comparable for age, sex, religion, place of birth, number of years spent in Britain and vegetarian status. There were no significant differences in actual oils used between healthy controls and patients with ulcerative colitis or Crohn's disease (chi 2 = 0.142 and 1.803 respectively, p greater than 0.50). However patients with Crohn's disease were found to recycle their cooking oil significantly more often than age and sex-matched colitics (p less than 0.05) and particularly age and sex-matched controls (p less than 0.01). A similar study needs to be conducted in India where the incidence of inflammatory bowel disease is low. If this difference is confirmed a programme of health education in cooking habits could lower the incidence of Crohn's disease. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1392030/
Abstract: Predictors of the development of hypertension were examined in a 10-year follow-up study of normotensive Japanese adults. Subjects (n = 265), aged 30-69 years at entry, normotensive and with no past history of antihypertensive treatment at entry, were studied in terms of the relationship of various physical, biochemical, dietary, and lifestyle data to the subsequent development of hypertension (defined as systolic blood pressure (SBP) more than 140 mmHg and/or diastolic blood pressure (DBP) more than 90 mmHg and/or starting antihypertensive treatment) with analysis accomplished using univariate and multivariate life table methods. Univariate analyses by the generalized Wilcoxon test showed significantly higher incidence of hypertension in those subjects with SBP 120 mmHg or more (p < 0.001), DBP 75 mmHg or more (p < 0.001), serum glutamate oxaloacetate transaminase (GOT) 20 KU or more (p < 0.001), serum glutamate pyruvate transaminase (GPT) 15 KU or more (p < 0.001), serum gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase (gamma-GTP) 10 IU/l or more (p < 0.001), age 50 or older (p = 0.002), body mass index 22 kg/m2 or more (p = 0.012), and serum creatinine less than 1.2 mg/dl (p = 0.020) than in the other subjects. Multivariate analysis by the Cox proportional hazards model confirmed that relatively higher SBP (p < 0.001), lower serum creatinine (p < 0.001), higher gamma-GTP (p = 0.002), and higher age (p = 0.041) were independent and significant predictors of future hypertension. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1391929/
Abstract: Single-tooth implants of various minerals and metals have been used, with some success, since ancient times. However, single-tooth implant survival was unpredictable until Branemark and his co-workers developed the theory and technique for obtaining a predictable direct bone to implant interface, which has been termed "osseointegration." Retrospective studies suggest excellent survival of single-tooth implants that predictably achieve this direct bone to implant interface. Case reports of single-tooth implants in the anterior and posterior areas of the jaws suggest the efficacy of this treatment, although scientific prospective studies evaluating the safety and efficacy of this treatment have only recently begun. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1391417/
Abstract: The sense of taste is an oral chemical sense in mammals that is involved in the choice of foods. Initial transduction of taste stimuli occurs in taste buds, which are distributed in four discrete fields in the oral cavity. Medications can affect the taste buds and ion channels in taste-bud cell membranes involved in stimulus transduction. The sense of taste gradually declines with aging, with bitter taste most affected. Neural circuits that mediate taste in primates include cranial nerves VII, IX, and X, the solitary nucleus in the brain stem, the ventroposteromedial nucleus of the thalamus, and the insular-opercular cortex. The central taste pathways process taste information about sweet, salty, sour, and bitter stimuli serially and in parallel. Medications associated with "metallic" dysgeusia and taste losses affect the taste system via unknown mechanisms. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1391666/
Abstract: A nutritional study of 100 patients enrolled in an active geriatric outpatient teaching program was conducted to document the clinical impression of weight loss in Alzheimer's disease. All new patients were asked to complete a questionnaire on nutrition. Patients were evaluated by a geriatrician, then categorized using DSM-III and NINCDS-ADRDA criteria. There were 34 Alzheimer patients and 60 nondemented patients with an average weight of 56.2 kgs and 66.1 kgs, respectively (p less than .002). Of the Alzheimer group, 44% reported weight loss in the past five years compared with 37% of the nondemented group, despite a concomitant increase in food intake in 35% versus 7%, respectively. On a one-year follow-up, 92% of Alzheimer patients lost weight, whereas 57% of the nondemented patients actually gained weight. The increase in reported food intake, with a significant concomitant weight loss, raises some challenging questions as to the existence of a hypermetabolic state in Alzheimer's disease. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1392026/
Abstract: A thirteen and a half year old girl and her father were both investigated because of chronic watery diarrhoea and growth failure or weight loss. Both were diagnosed as having coeliac disease. In the daughter, collagenous colitis was also diagnosed. The father had colonic collagen deposition with inflammatory changes as well. Both improved on gluten-free diets, but colonic collagen deposition persisted. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1392092/
Abstract: Percutaneous radiologic gastrostomy is comparable to endoscopic gastrotomy in its simplicity, high success rate and lack of complications. Furthermore, it compares favourably with endoscopic gastrostomy in significant aspects such as a lower incidence of wound infection, reduced risk of aspiration and ease of conversion to jejunal placement. There are also fewer contraindications to radiologic placement and the cost is likely to be less than for endoscopic gastrostomy. Since the emergence of percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy, clinicians have been re-evaluating the role of the gastrostomy in managing patients requiring nutritional support or gastrointestinal decompression. Percutaneous radiologic gastrostomy is an eminently suitable alternative to endoscopic or surgical gastrostomy. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1392032/
Abstract: A total of 493 male inpatients were subjects in a study of the dietary intake (food frequency) when they were elementary school age and at the time of marriage by a long-term recall method. In order to examine the reliability of the recalled dietary data, 21 food items were compared with results of the National Nutrition Survey for the same time period. Food intake by the long-term recall method, especially meats, egg, milk and rice correlated well with the results of the National Nutrition Survey. From these results it appears that long-term recall of dietary intake frequency data averages are similar to the results of the National Survey data. Therefore the long-term recall method reflects the dietary practices of that era, and keeping in mind its limitations, its use as a means of revealing the dietary practices of a population is suggested. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1391702/
Abstract: Isotopic clearance techniques have been widely used to measure GFR but may give variable results depending on the level of renal function and the technique used. GFR, measured by the technique of plasma disappearance of 99mTc-labeled diethylenetriaminopentacetic acid ([99mTc]DTPA) was compared with simultaneously obtained urinary clearance of [99mTc]DTPA. GFR was also measured by concurrent 24-h clearance of creatinine. Forty-six measurements of GFR were obtained in 12 patients who had no evidence of renal disease. Plasma disappearance was measured from three timed plasma samples collected 60 to 180 min after the bolus injection of 200 microCi of [99mTc]DTPA and was calculated as the product of the volume of distribution (milliliters) at time zero and the clearance rate (per minute) as determined by the regression of the monoexponential plot. Urinary clearance was measured as the average of 3 1-h urinary clearances collected after a water diuresis was established. GFR measured by plasma disappearance was significantly greater (P less than 0.001) than GFR measured simultaneously by urinary clearance. There was a linear correlation between GFR measured by urinary clearance and that measured by plasma clearance (r = 0.994). Plasma clearance exceeded urinary clearance by a constant factor of 1.3 over the range studied (urinary clearance range, 49 to 94 mL/min/1.73 m2). It was concluded that at relatively a normal GFR, the plasma clearance of [99mTc]DTPA consistently overestimates the urinary clearance of [99mTc]DTPA. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1404892/
Abstract: It has been claimed that conventional essential amino acid (EAA) solution may give rise to adverse effects such as hyperammonemia, in acute renal failure (ARF). On the other hand the majority the ARF treated recently have been complicated by multiple organ failure (MOF). These data indicate that a new regimen in nutritional support should be applied to those patients. A new amino acid solution for renal failure, containing not only EAA but also branched chain and non-essential amino acids, has been developed. We administered this solution as total parenteral nutrition (TPN) to ARF patients complicated by MOF. Continuous hemodiafiltration is simultaneously applied to remove excess water. The nutritional status and the deranged aminogram are improved by this treatment. We believe that an ARF patient complicated by MOF should be nutritionally supported with this new regimen. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1404641/
Abstract: A total of 97 newborns with apparent ureteropelvic junction obstruction was evaluated from mid 1984 to 1989. Evaluation and management are described. Of these patients 39 with an affected kidney showing good initial differential function (greater than 35%) by diethylenetriaminepentaacetic acid scan and 2 showing diminished function (less than 35%) were followed nonoperatively. Six patients (15%) eventually required pyeloplasty for diminishing function (4), urinary tract infections (1) or symptoms of colic (1). The 4 patients with diminishing function improved after pyeloplasty to at least the initial level. A total of 12 patients with good initial function (greater than 35%) of the affected kidney underwent early pyeloplasty (within 6 weeks of diagnosis). They were compared to the similar group of patients managed nonoperatively and followed by sequential renal scans. Eventual changes in percentage differential function in the nonoperative and early surgery groups were +2.8% and +4.1%, respectively. Changes in extraction factor were +0.8% (nonoperative group) and +0.9% (surgery group). No statistically significant difference was found. In the kidney with apparent ureteropelvic junction obstruction and good function, an initial nonoperative approach with sequential renal scan followup and pyeloplasty as needed appears to be reasonable and has resulted in no permanent loss of function. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1404893/
Abstract: The protein and amino acids (AAs) metabolism are known to be impaired in the uremic patients. The etiology of those abnormalities is multifactorial, such as inadequate nutritional intake, protein-restricted diet, decreased urinary excretion of AAs, impaired activity of AAs-synthetic and/or-degrading enzymes, disturbed absorption, loss of AAs during dialysis, and abnormal transcellular movement due to hormonal abnormalities. As the nutritional supplement for the uremic patient, essential amino acid has been proposed. It was, however, reported to cause the hyperammonemia with or without encephalopathy in addition to fatty liver. Further investigation concerning the optimal composition of AAs solution for uremic patients is required to solve these problems. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1404880/
Abstract: During the past 50 years, the development of both organic and analytical chemistry has greatly contributed to the discovery of new hereditary amino acid disorders. As a result, more than 80 new amino acid disorders have been discovered. More recently, the development of protein chemistry has made it easily to investigate the biochemical basis of these disorders. In this paper we present the status of biochemical diagnosis as well as mass-screening for amino acid disorders. The result of neonatal mass-screening for 4 amino acid disorders (PKU, MSUD, homocystinuria and histidinemia) from 1977 to 1990 revealed that the incidence of PKU is extremely rare in Japan when compared to European Countries, and the incidence of MSUD and homocystinuria are also less common in Japan. On the other hand, the incidence of histidinemia is higher in Japan than in Europe, however, a follow up study of more than 1,500 patients showed almost all cases developed normally without any dietary treatment. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1404797/
Abstract: Objective:
        
      
      To test whether bone mass increases in healthy nonpregnant white women during early adult life after cessation of linear growth; and to test whether various self-chosen levels of physical activity and nutrient intake or use of oral contraceptives influences this increase in bone mass. Design:
        
      
      Longitudinal prospective study of up to 5 years of 156 healthy college-aged women full-time students attending professional schools in universities in the Omaha, Neb, area. Setting:
        
      
      University medical center. Participants:
        
      
      A convenience sample of healthy women students from Omaha-area professional schools. Any candidate with an illness, condition, or medication (except oral contraceptives) thought to affect general health or bone mass was excluded. Interventions:
        
      
      None. Outcome measures:
        
      
      Clinical and family histories of disease, particularly osteoporosis; oral contraceptive use; bone mineral densities of the spine, forearm, and total body by dual- and single-photon absorptiometry; estimates of nutrient intake by repeated 7-day diet diaries; and measures of physical activity using a physical activity monitor. Results:
        
      
      The median gain in bone mass for the third decade of life, expressed as a percentage per decade, was 4.8% for the forearm, 5.9% for lumbar bone mineral content, 6.8% for lumbar bone mineral density, and 12.5% for total body bone mass (P < .0001 in all cases). By both bivariate and multiple regression analysis the rate of gain in bone density of the spine was negatively correlated with age and positively correlated with calcium/protein intake ratio and physical activity (multiple r = .31; P = .004). Bivariate analysis showed that use of oral contraceptives was associated with greater gain in total body bone mass (r = .31, P = .01). The estimated age when mineral acquisition ceased ranged from 28.3 years to 29.5 years at the several study sites. Conclusions:
        
      
      Gain in bone mass occurs in healthy young women during the third decade of life. Physical activity and dietary calcium intake both exert a positive effect on this bone gain. Use of oral contraceptives exerts a further independent positive effect. Changes in life-style among college-aged women, involving relatively modest increases in physical activity and calcium intake, may significantly reduce the risk of osteoporosis late in life. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1405235/
Abstract: Routine recommendations were used to prevent hypertensive disease in patients with borderline arterial hypertension without using drugs in one of the surveys. The other involved the same methods under constant control and psychological maintenance to continue preventive measures. The second approach was found to be more effective and to considerably increase the patients' compliance. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1404955/
Abstract: The factors that influence reference values are briefly reviewed using our experimental data. The factors can be divided into the following 3 subfactors: analytical technology, selection of so called healthy person and statistical method. The most large effect came from a variety of physiological conditions in healthy persons, i.e., age, sex, diurnal and menstrual rhythms, drinking and smoking habits, diet, physical exercise, posture, tourniquet etc. A new concept of tow-step reference values "the basal value and the equivocal value" is postulated from the studies of the effect of these physiological conditions. The effects of the statistical methods for obtaining the distribution type of data of normal reference group and the 95% reference range were not so large. Then, we conclude that the reference values or the reference ranges should be made in your own laboratories using carefully selected healthy persons even if 30 or 50 small numbers are used. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1405369/
Abstract: In prescribing CAPD, general clinical practice is to use the standard regimen of 2L x 4 exchanges/day without regard to patient size, nutritional status, or residual kidney function. The standard regimen is usually adjusted in a trial and error manner reacting to clinical symptoms, life style issues, and patient compliance. The purpose of this paper is to recommend an alternative, quantitative approach based on urea kinetics that is prospective rather than reactive, and objective rather than subjective. The value of urea kinetic-based hemodialysis therapy prescription is well established and applying this knowledge to CAPD is a good starting point. The importance of small solute clearances for CAPD adequacy can be established on both theoretical and clinical grounds. The value of the KT/V urea index, its calculation, scaling factors for CAPD-hemodialysis comparisons, and the correlation between KT/V and weekly creatinine clearances are examined. Residual renal function has a significant impact on small solute clearances, and failure to adjust the therapy prescription to compensate for declining residual kidney function will have a detrimental impact on KT/V and the protein catabolic rate. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1405003/
Abstract: The present study was conducted in order to examine the epidemiologic factors related to work capacity among the elderly. As study area, Ogimi Village in Okinawa Prefecture was selected by reason of the long life expectancy of the inhabitants. Medical examination and interview were conducted on 756 inhabitants aged 65 yr and older. Working status was classified into two groups, that is, working group and non-working group. The association between working status and related factors was examined by using multiple logistic regression analysis. The examined factors were as follows: sex, age, history of apoplexy, history of being down, history of falls, history of fracture, chewing ability, pain, exercise habit, hobby, education, number of family members, alcohol, smoking, food intake frequencies and medical indicators (blood pressure, ECG, Quetlet index, skinfold thickness, grip strength, one-leg test with eyes opened, albumin, total cholesterol, hemoglobin and HDL-cholesterol). The results of the analysis revealed that grip strength and one-leg test with eyes opened had a statistically significant correlation with working status (p < 0.01). From the results, maintenance of muscle strength and equilibrium function were found to be the physical conditions related to work among the elderly in the agricultural area. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1405370/
Abstract: Peritoneal dialysis is associated with metabolic and nutritional abnormalities due to the combined effects of uremia per se, glucose absorption from the dialysate and a variety of catabolic factors, such as protein and amino acid losses into the dialysate, poor appetite possibly reflecting insufficient removal of small solutes, and recurrent episodes of peritonitis. Signs of protein-energy malnutrition are common, especially in patients with minimal or no residual renal function. Variables that best correlate with the degree of malnutrition include serum albumin, midarm muscle circumference, clinical signs of muscle wasting and loss of subcutaneous fat, and a history of anorexia. The incidence of malnutrition is higher in females than in males and in diabetics than in non-diabetics. CAPD patients generally have a lower protein intake than HD patients, but may have a lower average protein requirement than HD patients. Progression of malnutrition may occur in CAPD patients due to the synergistic effects of loss of residual renal function, underdialysis, anorexia and inadequate dietary intake. In underdialyzed CAPD patients, the amount of dialysis should be increased and measures should be taken to increase the supply of energy and protein. The use of amino acid-based dialysis fluid may provide new opportunities for compensation of dialytic losses of protein and amino acids, normalization of essential amino acids, supplementation of inadequate dietary protein intake, and improvement of the nutritional status in CAPD patients. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1405108/
Abstract: A 70-year-old woman with diabetes mellitus who was following a therapeutic diet showed an infiltrative shadow in the right upper lung field on chest roentgenogram in April, 1986. She was diagnosed as having pneumonia and was treated for five months with several antibiotics, but the abnormal shadow on chest roentgenograms increased in size. Therefore, she was admitted to our hospital in October 1986. Although tubercle bacilli were not isolated from her sputum or from materials obtained by bronchoscopic examination, we made an initial diagnosis of pulmonary tuberculosis based on the findings of chest roentgenograms, tomographs and CT scanning. In spite of treatment with antituberculous drugs, the infiltrative shadow with cavity on chest roentgenograms continued to increase in size, and the patient developed occasional hemoptysis. Percutaneous needle biopsy was performed in February 1987 to establish a definite diagnosis, and the presence of Aspergillus fumigatus was confirmed by microscopic examination and culture. After treatment with miconazole and 5-FC for 3 to 4 months, the abnormal shadow on the chest roentgenogram gradually disappeared and was almost undetectable one year later. The clinical course of this patient was considered to be strongly indicative of chronic necrotizing pulmonary aspergillosis, which was described by Binder et al. in 1982. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1405345/
Abstract: We investigated the role of atrial natriuretic factor (ANF) in the down-regulation of sodium excretion (UNaV). Seven subjects were sequentially studied while ingesting a normal-salt diet (220 mmol NaCl/day, NSD), a very low-salt diet (20 mmol NaCl/day, VLSD) for six days, and again at NSD for nine days. After one day of VLSD, a negative salt balance of 85 mmol was achieved and plasma ANF decreased from 19.1 (SE 2.5) to 7.2 (SE 2.1) pg/ml, whereas plasma renin activity (PRA) and plasma aldosterone (ALD) increased after the third and second day, respectively. During restoration of volemia (NSD), ANF increased after the third day; in contrast, PRA and ALD decreased earlier. Seven other subjects kept at low-salt diet (50 mmol NaCl/day) were studied during ANF infusion (at 2, 4, 8 ng/min/kg body wt). Increases of ANF from 10.3 (SE 0.9) pg/ml (basal condition) to levels of 24.0 (SE 1.9) pg/ml (infusion study), occurring physiologically in the same subjects after NSD, evoked increases in UNa V that accounted for 62% of UNa V rise necessary to balance the NSD, whereas PRA or ALD did not change. Plasma ANF, unlike PRA or ALD, was directly correlated with UNa V. In conclusion:
        
      
      (a) ANF changes earlier than PRA and plasma aldosterone during VLSD; (b) PRA and ALD respond more promptly than ANF in the recovery from hypovolemia; (c) during ingestion of a low-salt diet, changes in plasma ANF by infusion account for more than half the increase in UNa V following the shift from low- to normal-salt diet independently of alterations in PRA and ALD. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1405361/
Abstract: The incidence of end-stage renal disease is increasing and this results in an enhanced requirement of renal replacement therapy facilities. This brings about a significant burden on health care budgets and makes strategies that slow down or even prevent deterioration of the renal function mandatory. Although large scale randomized, controlled and prospective clinical trials on the effect of blood pressure control on the course of renal function are lacking, there is circumstantial evidence from animal, epidemiological and clinical studies to state that treatment of hypertension to blood pressure values well within the normal range is most important to ameliorate the downhill course of renal function in patients with chronic renal failure. Moreover, treatment of hypertension is critical to reduce morbidity and mortality of cardiovascular disease in these patients, who have an increased risk for such events. Low-protein diets, if possible with ketoacid supplement, are advocated to slow down the deterioration of renal function. However, based on the results of recent studies, low-protein diets may only have a moderate effect in patients with diabetic nephropathy and, possibly, in patients with chronic glomerulonephritis. The possibility of influencing renal ammoniagenesis by protein restriction or calcium carbonate administration, and an attenuation of alternative complement pathway activation and tubulo-interstitial injury, are challenging. Finally, in animal studies it has been found that abnormalities in serum lipid profile contribute to the progression of chronic renal failure, which may be prevented by pharmacological treatment of hyperlipidemia. Studies in humans concerning this subject are lacking at this moment, but treatment of hyperlipidemia is proper to reduce cardiovascular events. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1405330/
Abstract: To verify the hypothesis that angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors possess a unique renoprotective effect in progressive chronic renal disease, we decided to compare the effects of an ACE inhibitor and a calcium antagonist on both hypertension and the progression of non-diabetic renal insufficiency in a long-term study. A four-year, multicenter, prospective, randomized trial was conducted on 142 hypertensive patients (pts) with established chronic renal failure from six Italian nephrology departments. They were on standard antihypertensive therapy with a low-protein diet and underwent twice-monthly surveillance for a one year pre-randomization period. After that year, 121 pts were randomly allocated to captopril or slow-release nifedipine therapies for a three-year study period. The progression of renal insufficiency was monitored every two months. Blood pressure control was significantly better after randomization than during the year of standard antihypertensive therapy. The progression rate before randomization (BR) was definitely higher before than after randomization (AR): Creatinine clearance (CCr) change BR = -0.46 +/- 0.45 ml/min/month, creatinine clearance change AR = -0.23 +/- 0.43 ml/min/month (P less than 0.01). After randomization, the mean blood pressure values were virtually the same throughout the three year period of the study in the two groups treated by captopril (group I), or nifedipine (group II).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS) 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1405377/
Abstract: Case mix and laboratory predictors of death risk were evaluated in 17,185 hemodialysis patients. The laboratory variables most closely associated with the increased death risk borne by diabetic patients (relative to non-diabetics) and White patients (relative to non-Whites) were identified. The analyses of laboratory death risk predictors were similar to those previously reported. Serum albumin concentration is the most powerful death risk predictor among all of the variables, both case mix and laboratory. Statistical models including only case mix variables reveal both race (RRWhites = 1.42) and diabetes (RRdiabetes = 1.43) as significant predictors. Adding creatinine, albumin, and BUN concentrations to the model eliminated diabetes as a significant predictor. Creatinine and albumin accounted for most of the change. Adding only creatinine eliminated race. The data suggest that reduced visceral and somatic protein mass and/or metabolism may be important determinants of mortality in dialysis patients. Because differences in the concentrations of creatinine and albumin explain much of the risk associated with being White or diabetic, differences in nutritional status may explain the reduced survival observed in those groups. Therefore, clinicians should not simply accept without question the notion that diabetics and Whites are doomed to inferior survival. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1405579/
Abstract: The purpose of this study was to determine the acute effects of the consumption or omission of breakfast on exercise tolerance in adolescents. Physically active adolescents (14 males and 21 females) were randomly assigned to receive a breakfast (B) or placebo (P) after an overnight fast. Exercise tolerance tests were done 1.5 hours (test 1) and again 4 hours (test 2) after consuming B or P and consisted of cycling on a stationary bike for 4 minutes at each of four consecutive power settings: 25, 50, 75, and 100 watts. Blood glucose and beta-hydroxybutyrate concentrations were measured before both tests. VO2 and VCO2 were measured during minute 3 of cycling at loads 50 and 75 watts and were used to compute the respiratory exchange ratio (RER). Heart rates (HR) were monitored throughout the test and ratings of perceived exertion (RPE) were made at the end of each 4 min interval. Repeated measures ANOVA revealed that there were no differences in RPE; however, differences for HR and RER did exist. Mean RER values were higher for the males receiving B vs males receiving P during test 1. For females, HR were higher for P compared B, and beta-hydroxybutyrate was significantly elevated for P before test 2. The data suggest that exercise tolerance as indicated by the ratings of perceived exertion are unaffected by prior ingestion of a breakfast but breakfast does affect the physiologic responses to exercise. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1405620/
Abstract: Biliary sludge formation is reported to be one of the complications of intravenous hyperalimentation (IVH); however, the change in human biliary lithogenicity during IVH treatment has been little studied. To clarify the pathogenesis of IVH-induced biliary sludge, we determined biliary lipid composition, vesicular cholesterol concentration, and nucleation time using gallbladder bile samples collected from three groups: The IVH group comprised 9 patients who received IVH with fasting for a period of 2-8 days prior to surgery for gastrointestinal diseases. The control group comprised 10 patients operated after overnight fasting for gastrointestinal diseases. The cholesterol gallstone group comprised 14 patients surgically treated for cholesterol gallstone disease after overnight fasting. The nucleation time in the IVH group was significantly shorter (7.8 +/- 5.3 days, mean +/- SD) than that in the control group (17.3 +/- 5.5 days), while it did not reach the value in the cholesterol gallstone group (3.1 +/- 3.3 days). The cholesterol saturation index in the IVH group (1.01 +/- 0.27) was higher but not significantly different compared with the control group (0.80 +/- 0.21). The concentrations of biliary lipids and individual bile acid were similar in the IVH and control groups. The vesicular cholesterol concentration in the IVH group (3.0 +/- 2.1 mM) was significantly higher than that in the control group (0.9 +/- 1.0 mM). In conclusion, IVH with fasting causes a rapid cholesterol nucleation time and a higher vesicular cholesterol concentration, thereby inducing an initial stage of gallbladder sludge formation. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1405819/
Abstract: Immunizations for international travel are an important component of pretravel medical care. Travelers should receive protection against vaccine-preventable exotic diseases, and their immunity against common infectious diseases should be reviewed and updated. There are no immunizations for some important infectious hazards of travel. In the course of considering a traveler's risk for exposure to infectious disease on the basis of geographic destination, style of travel, and anticipated activities, the health care provider should discuss preventive measures and personal behavior with regard to food and water, avoidance of insect bites, personal safety, and sexual activity. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1405575/
Abstract: Seven adolescent female runners with secondary amenorrhea and six adolescent eumenorrheic female runners received dietary supplements of 1200 mg calcium carbonate and 400 IU vitamin D/d for 12 months. Bone mineral density (BMD) of the axial skeleton was measured by dual photon densitometry at the beginning and end of the 12 month period. Plasma estradiol and ionized calcium concentration were also determined. Bone mineral density decreased in two of the amenorrheic subjects, with the lowest estradiol values concurrent with the severest training regimen and highest calcium intake. There was a significant decrease in plasma estradiol concentration in the amenorrheic runners (p less than 0.05). Plasma ionized calcium and estradiol explained 99% of the variation in BMD (r2 = 0.999). A significant inverse relationship between plasma estradiol and miles run/week was observed (r2 = -0.748). Adolescent female runners who train extensively and have low plasma estradiol levels may be adversely affecting BMD despite supplemental calcium and vitamin D intake. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1405584/
Abstract: High costs and a paucity of available operating time have led us to seek alternatives to operatively placed vascular access systems. This prospective study is the initial report of a peripheral port system (P.A.S. PORT System, Pharmacia Deltec, Inc.) placed at the bedside. Seventy-nine patients (52 male, 27 female), ages 3-92 years, had ports implanted by surgical residents with attending supervision. Sixty-eight (86%) received the P.A.S. PORT for long-term antibiotics, antifungal, or antiviral therapy; four (5%) for TPN infusion; three (4%) for blood products; two (3%) for chemotherapy; and two (3%) for iv narcotics. Ports were placed in 10 (13%) HIV(+) patients, three (4%) who were fully anticoagulated, and one who was a hemophiliac with a platelet count of zero. Eight patients (10%) developed superficial phlebitis, all of which resolved with nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agents within 48 hr without port removal. Seven patients (9%) had their port removed due to infection. The average hospital charge to place the P.A.S. PORT System was $1488.00 vs $2811.00 for a tunneled external chest catheter and $3729.00 for the placement of a chest port. Bedside insertion of vascular access devices can be safely performed with acceptable infection rates allowing more efficient use of hospital operating rooms and with substantial cost savings. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1417163/
Abstract: The article describes the history, clinical picture and anatomopathological changes of Kashin-Beck disease with reference to the stages of the disease which are at present agreed upon. Specific reference is made to the occurrence of the disease in Tibet. An overview is given of the different proposed etiologies. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1417342/
Abstract: A total of 600 patients with suspected alimentary food poisoning were hospitalized. The ++clinico-laboratory findings showed that 27 (4.5 per cent) of them had Campylobacter infection. The cultures of Campylobacter jejuni and Campylobacter coli were isolated from 24 and 3 patients, respectively. The patients underwent complex pathogenetic treatment with oral rehydration saline solutions, symptomatic agents, enzymatic preparations and diet (the basic therapy) supplemented with biological bacterial preparations in less severe cases (8 patients). Antibacterial drugs such as furazolidone (roxytromycin), gentamicin and levomycetin, as well as fluoroquinolones such as ofloxacin and ciprofloxacin were additionally used in the treatment of both the patients with the generalized infection and those with more severe processes of the disease, pronounced diarrhea with blood traces and persisting isolation of Campylobacter (12 patients). The most favourable results in the treatment of more severe patients with Campylobacter infection were obtained with the fluoroquinolones used after inadequately efficient therapy with furazolidone or antibiotics especially in the cases with repeated isolation of campylobacteria. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1417159/
Abstract: 58 apparently healthy Polynesian Wuchereria bancrofti carriers were randomly allocated to 5 treatment groups: 1) two annual doses of ivermectin 100 mcg/kg, 2) three semi-annual doses of ivermectin 100 mcg/kg, 3) two annual doses of diethylcarbamazine (DEC) 3 mg/kg, 4) semi-annual doses of DEC 3 mg/kg, 5) two annual doses of DEC 6 mg/kg. Results observed during the 12-month period which followed last treatment have confirmed that efficacy of ivermectin is higher than that of DEC in terms of immediate clearance or complete negativation of microfilaremia, but not in terms of sustained reduction and that efficacy of repeated single doses of either DEC 3 mg/kg or ivermectin 100 mcg/kg is much higher when given semi-annually than annually. They also have indicated that (i) 6 months after last treatment: 3 semi-annual doses of 100 mcg/kg of ivermectin have resulted in high reduction of microfilaremia (85%) and, 2 annual doses of 6 mg/kg and 3 semi-annual doses of 3 mg/kg of DEC have resulted in even greater reduction (96 and 98% respectively) and (ii): 12 months after last treatment, the greatest reductions of microfilaremia (95 and 92%) have been observed in carriers treated, respectively, with 3 semi-annual doses of 3 mg/kg or with 2 annual doses of 6 mg/kg of DEC.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS) 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1417378/
Abstract: Background:
        
      
      Ciguatera fish poisoning is a distinctive clinical syndrome associated with the consumption of contaminated marine fish. It is endemic in many popular travel destinations, including the Caribbean and Pacific Islands, where travelers are at risk. Methods:
        
      
      Clinical review of 23 patients (60% were travelers) with ciguatera fish poisoning in whom consultation was provided between 1987 and 1990. Results:
        
      
      Seven patients acquired ciguatera fish poisoning during international travel to the following destinations: Bahamas (n = 4), Dominican Republic (n = 1), British Virgin Islands (n = 1), and United States (n = 1). Suspected fish included grouper, red snapper, and amberjack. Two patients required emergency care, and four patients developed chronic symptoms. Severity was associated with chronicity, duration of peak symptoms, and worsening of symptoms with sexual activity. Chronicity was associated with severity, long latency period, and duration of peak symptoms. The three patients with complete resolution were scuba divers. Amitriptyline was the drug most often providing benefit for chronic symptoms. Conclusions:
        
      
      Ciguatera fish poisoning is a health risk to travelers to endemic regions, and their risk likely equals that of indigenous population groups. Barracuda should never be eaten, and travelers should exercise caution when considering other fish dishes, notably, grouper and red snapper. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1417124/
Abstract: Thirteen women (mean age 48.2 years; range 25-60 years) all of whom had developed musculoskeletal symptoms during employment in an industrial job with repetitive tasks were referred by their trade unions for adjudication on the cause of symptoms. One had rheumatoid arthritis. A study of the other 12 women provided an opportunity to document the natural history of repetitive strain disorder. Early symptoms of weakness were diffuse but were always relieved by rest. Several months later localisation of symptoms at a tendon, nerve, or enthesis could be predicted from the analysis of the action required in the particular repetitive task. Six of the 12 women required an operation several years later, thus providing histological confirmation of the presence of a lesion. Early loss of grip strength measured by a sphygmomanometer cuff compared with an unaffected control subject and improved by rest may be the most valuable sign in excluding compensation neurosis. The estimated prevalence of repetitive strain disorder defined by these strict criteria was at least 2% in conveyor belt workers. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1417173/
Abstract: Recent animal studies suggest that nutritional repletion may improve function of liver allografts, and the authors have found that intraportal glucose infusion in pigs produces rapid and substantial hepatic glycogenation. A controlled prospective randomized study in 32 patients was done to determine glycogen content and degradation in human livers during transplantation, and the effect of intraportal glucose-insulin infusions during the donor operation on these variables and on outcome of transplantation. Peripheral blood glucose concentrations were "clamped" at 14 mmol/L during the glucose-insulin infusion. Liver biopsies were taken at various stages of the procedure. Liver glycogen decreased 2.0 +/- 1.2 g/100 g dry weight liver (mean +/- standard error of the mean) in controls, but increased 6.8 +/- 1.8 g/100 g dry weight in glucose-infused donors. In both groups there was glycogen degradation during periods of cold preservation, anoxic rewarming, and after reperfusion with portal blood. Degradation rates were greater in the glucose-infused group than in controls in all three periods (p less than 0.05). Despite wide variation in postoperative aspartate aminotransferase (AST) levels among recipients in both groups, the difference in peak postoperative AST levels approached significance (p = 0.06). In addition, peak AST levels were closely correlated to anoxic rewarming time in both groups, but the slope of the relationship was much lower (3834 versus 734, p less than 0.01) in the glucose-infused group. Thus at anoxic rewarming times over 90 minutes, glycogenation was protective of liver function. Peak postoperative AST was significantly correlated to glycogen degradation in the cold preservation and rewarming periods in the glucose-infused group only. Intraoperative glucose infusions in humans can reglycogenate the liver, increase glycogen degradation, and improve certain outcome measures in liver transplantation. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1417177/
Abstract: The authors examined the effect of recombinant-human growth hormone (r-hGH) and insulin (INS) administration on protein kinetics in cancer patients. Twenty-eight cancer patients either received r-hGH for 3 days (GH group, n = 12, weight loss = 6 +/- 2%) or were not treated (control [CTL] group, n = 16, weight loss = 11 +/- 2%) before metabolic study. Recombinant-human growth hormone dose was 0.1 mg/kg/day (n = 6) or 0.2 mg/kg/day (n = 6). Patients then underwent measurement of baseline protein kinetics (GH/B, CTL/B) followed by a 2-hour euglycemic insulin infusion (1 mU/kg/minute) and repeat kinetic measurements (GH/INS,CTL/INS). Whole-body protein net balance (mumol leucine/kg/minute) was higher (p less than 0.05) in GH/INS (0.20 +/- 0.06) than in CTL/INS (0.06 +/- 0.03) or GH/B (-0.19 +/- 0.03). Skeletal muscle protein net balance (nmol phenylalanine/100 g/minute) in GH/INS (25 +/- 6) and CTL/INS (19 +/- 5) was higher than CTL/B (-18 +/- 3). Recombinant-human growth hormone and insulin reduce whole-body and skeletal muscle protein loss in cancer patients. Simultaneous use of these agents during nutritional therapy may benefit the cancer patient. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1417175/
Abstract: A prospective evaluation was conducted of 94 unselected patients ("all comers") with biopsy-proven Child's class C cirrhosis (93% alcoholic) and endoscopically proven acutely bleeding esophageal varices who underwent emergency portacaval shunt (EPCS) (85% side-to-side, 15% end-to-side) within 8 hours of initial contact (mean, 6.1 hours) during the past 12 years. Follow-up has been 100% and includes all patients for at least 1 year, and 61 patients (65%) for 5 to 12 years. Incidence of serious risk factors on initial contact was: ascites, 97%; jaundice, 86%; portal-systemic encephalopathy including past history, 71%; severe muscle wasting, 96%; alcohol ingestion within 7 days, 66%; delirium tremens, 16%; serum albumin, less than or equal to 2.5 g/dL 76%; indocyanine green dye retention greater than or equal to 50% in 45 minutes, 66%; serum glutamic-oxaloacetic transaminase greater than or equal to 100 units/L, 60%; hyperdynamic cardiac output greater than or equal to 6 L/minute, 98%. Mean Child's point score was 13.7 out of a maximum of 15. EPCS reduced mean corrected free portal pressure from 286 to 23 mm saline, and permanently controlled variceal bleeding in every patient. Of the 94 patients, 74 (80%) left the hospital alive and 68 (72%) survived 1 year. Five-year actuarial survival rate is 64%. Hepatic failure was the main cause of death during initial hospitalization as well as during follow-up, when it was related to continued alcoholism. Portal-systemic encephalopathy, which was present on initial contact in 55% of patients, occurred at some time during follow-up in 18.7%, but was recurrent and required dietary protein restriction in only 9%, all of whom had resumed alcoholism. The low incidence of portal-systemic encephalopathy was attributable to the lifelong program of follow-up with regular dietary counseling and continued emphasis on both protein restriction to 60 g/day and abstinence from alcohol. Abstinence was sustained in 69%, liver function improved in 82%, general health was judged excellent or good in 73%, and Child's risk class converted to class B in 73% and class A in 21%. Excluding retirees because of age, 42% were gainfully employed or engaged in full-time housekeeping. Long-term shunt patency was documented in 100% of survivors by yearly angiography or Doppler ultrasonography. It is concluded that EPCS within 8 hours of initial contact permanently controls variceal hemorrhage and results in prolonged survival and a life of acceptable quality in many alcoholic cirrhotic patients in Child's class C.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS) 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1417122/
Abstract: The number of sulphydryl groups on the erythrocyte membrane has been assessed as a function of nutritional status for two groups of patients, one receiving non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and the other receiving sodium aurothiomalate (Myocrisin). The patients receiving NSAIDs had a significantly higher number of sulphydryl groups in both the glucose depleted and glucose activated states than the patients receiving sodium aurothiomalate. The study focuses on the hexose transport protein where there is a specific binding site for gold using the two sulphydryl residues on helices 11 and 12 of the protein. The data suggest that the strong binding of gold to the erythrocyte membrane occurs via thiol pairs rather than by isolated sulphydryl groups and that there are possibly two further binding sites for gold on the membrane, the identities of which are still unclear. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1417387/
Abstract: Purpose:
        
      
      The purpose of this study was to investigate the pathophysiology of persistent orthostatic hypotension in a patient with ciguatera fish poisoning. Methods:
        
      
      A patient who became ill and who developed prolonged and symptomatic orthostatic hypotension with ciguatera fish poisoning after eating barracuda is described. Studies of autonomic function included measurements of plasma catecholamine levels in the supine and standing positions, and pressor responses to infusions of norepinephrine, atropine, and propranolol. Results:
        
      
      Volume depletion was excluded as a cause for hypotension. Our patient showed low plasma catecholamine levels and marked pressor hypersensitivity to norepinephrine infusion. Hypotension and bradycardia were reversed by atropine infusion. The heart rate freed from autonomic influences, ie, after atropine plus propranolol infusion, was normal. Conclusions:
        
      
      In ciguatera fish poisoning, orthostatic hypotension appears to be a result of both parasympathetic excess and sympathetic failure. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1417188/
Abstract: The Program on the Surgical Control of the Hyperlipidemias (POSCH) provided the clearest and the most convincing evidence supporting the beneficial effects of cholesterol lowering in hypercholesterolemic survivors of a myocardial infarction. In POSCH, 78 of the 838 patients (9.3%) were women, with 32 randomized to the diet-control group and 46 to the diet plus partial ileal bypass surgery-intervention group. At 5 years, the mean per cent change from baseline was -23.9% for total plasma cholesterol (p < 0.0001), -36.1% for low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (p < 0.0001), and +8.5% for high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (p = not significant). Because of the small number of women, no statistically significant changes in clinical event rates were observed between the control and the surgery groups. A comparison of 162 coronary arteriography film pairs in the POSCH women, between baseline and 3, 5, 7, and 10 years, consistently showed less disease progression in the surgery group (p = 0.013 for combined assessments of the baseline to the longest follow-up film). Because the lipid and coronary arteriography findings in the POSCH women paralleled these findings in the total POSCH population and in the POSCH men, and because the arteriography changes in POSCH have previously been demonstrated to be statistically significant surrogate end points for certain clinical events and predictors of overall and atherosclerotic coronary heart disease mortality rates, we conclude that the lipid modification achieved in the POSCH women by partial ileal bypass reduced their atherosclerosis progression. The POSCH findings in women support the aggressive treatment of hyperlipidemia in the general management of atherosclerosis in women. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1417409/
Abstract: Several epidemiological studies have shown decreased cardiovascular mortality and a lower incidence of coronary artery disease in subjects with high dietary intakes of Omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids. It has since been shown that Omega-3 fatty acids have a number of beneficial effects in the prevention of atherosclerosis in man: reduction of blood pressure, modifications of lipoprotein metabolism, modifications of haemostasis (increased bleeding time and reduced platelet aggregation), decreased plasma fibrinogen, modifications of the metabolism of arachidonic acid and its derivatives (decreased thromboxane and leukotriene synthesis, increased prostacyclin synthesis). Therefore, Omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids have several beneficial effects on the presumed mechanisms of atherogenesis and/or its complications: they could represent an original and seductive solution to the problem of prevention of cardiovascular disease. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1417473/
Abstract: Data from lower mammals suggest a masculinizing or defeminizing influence of pre- or perinatal diethylstilbestrol (DES) exposure on various aspects of the sex-dimorphic behavior (including juvenile rough-and-tumble play) of genetic females. However, three previous studies on childhood play and adult gender-role behavior in human females have led to ambiguous results. In a follow-up study of 60 women with prenatal exposure to DES and 26 controls, we used psychometrically well-designed multi-item scales based on self-report inventories for the assessment of these aspects of behavior. No effects of DES could be demonstrated. We conclude that, at the doses studied, prenatal DES exposure in human females has not led to behavioral masculinization or defeminization of childhood play and adult gender-role behavior. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1417480/
Abstract: We reviewed our experience from 1979 to 1990 with 160 cases of transhiatal esophagectomy for carcinoma of the lower esophagus and cardia to evaluate trends in patient selection, management, and outcome. Patients treated in the past 6 years (n = 110) and those treated before 1985 (n = 50) were similar in terms of age and sex distribution, medical history, and weight loss. The majority of tumors seen were adenocarcinoma, with patients in the latter group having significantly lower stages. Significant decreases in anesthetic time, units of blood transfusions, chest tube insertions, length of postoperative ventilation, incidence of postoperative pneumonia, and length of hospital stay were seen during the past 6 years. Wound infections increased significantly during the same period. The decrease in the 30-day mortality rate from 6% to 0.9% was not significant. Survival rates did not differ between groups, with overall rates of 62%, 40%, and 21% at 1, 2, and 5 years, respectively. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1417487/
Abstract: We reviewed 46 consecutive patients with Crohn's disease predominantly affecting the ileum who specifically underwent right-sided ileocolectomy with primary anastomosis. All had a primary ileocolic anastomosis done by suture in a single-layer closed fashion. Of these 46 patients, 19.6% had overt intra-abdominal sepsis, 30.4% had prior surgery, and 95.7% were taking corticosteroid drugs just before their operation. The mean (+/- SE) age was 31.5 +/- 2.0 years. The serum albumin level was less than 35 g/L in 93.5% of patients; all had a hematocrit value less than 0.36, and 80.4% lost more than 15% of their normal body weight. No patient received parenteral nutrition either preoperatively or postoperatively. No change in the preoperative, intraoperative, or postoperative approach to treating patients with predominantly ileal Crohn's disease occurred during the 10-year period of review. There was a 2.2% incidence of perioperative complications (one superficial wound infection) and a 6.5% incidence of late (>1.49 months) complications (two suture sinuses and one wound abscess unassociated with a fistula). Our findings suggest that preoperative parenteral nutrition is unnecessary in the majority of patients with predominantly ileal Crohn's disease specifically undergoing right-sided ileocolectomy and primary ileocolic anastomosis. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1417632/
Abstract: This paper reports the results of a multicentre study of the new monoamine oxidase inhibitor, moclobemide, in the treatment of major depression. Moclobemide is a specific monoamine oxidase-A inhibitor which does not bind irreversibly to the enzyme, unlike the currently available MAOIs. Recent studies would suggest that in subjects taking moclobemide blood pressure elevation caused by tyramine is significantly less than that induced by the irreversible MAOIs, particularly when tyramine is administered in an oral form. Forty-eight patients with major depression were randomly allocated to treatment with either moclobemide or amitriptyline for 4 weeks in a double-blind comparison. There were no statistically significant differences between the two groups on measures of efficacy. Patients taking amitriptyline reported a greater number of side-effects and more patients in the amitriptyline group dropped out because of these. There were no reports of interactions with tyramine-containing foods. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1417666/
Abstract: A biomedical study was undertaken at the Institute of Nutrition and Food Science, University of Dhaka to observe the effect of the antioxidative roles of vitamins A and E on the degenerative process occurring in spondylosis in human. A single and a double blind study were done. Thirty two patients suffering from spondylosis were selected for the study on the basis of certain criteria. The serum vitamin E level in most of the patients were lower (5.8 +/- 2.7 umol/L) than normal (11-41 umol/L). Vitamin E administration at a dose of 100 mg daily for three weeks resulted in a significant increase in serum vitamin E level accompanied by complete relief of pain. The serum vitamin A level of the patients were already within the normal (0.53-2 umol/L) range and vitamin A administration was not effective in relieving the pain. The results therefore strongly indicate that vitamin E is effective in curing spondylosis and most probably due to its antioxidant activity. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1417896/
Abstract: The proteolytic pattern of Trypanosoma cruzi epimastigotes was studied using electrophoresis in gelatin containing SDS polyacrylamide gels. Under conditions that represent a nutritional stress such as the depletion of glucose in an axenic medium the results obtained showed a significant increase in the activity of two proteases of M(r) = 50,000 and M(r) = 60,000 as well as the appearance of higher molecular weight bands during the transition from log to stationary phase parasites. The use of different protease inhibitors strongly suggests that all these proteases are of the cysteine type, and their acid pH optimal would be in agreement with the possible localization in the parasite lysosomes. The reincubation of stationary phase parasites in fresh LIT medium or the addition of 0.4% glucose partially reverted the proteolytic pattern to that observed in log phase parasites. The regulation in the activity of these enzymes could be related to the well established use of amino acids for catabolic purpose after depletion of the medium glucose. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1418055/
Abstract: In a pilot study based on an open cross-over design involving four phases, the relative bioavailability of the eburnamenine derivative vinpocetine (CAS 42971-09-5) was investigated in 8 healthy volunteers in relation to different times of drug administration relative to food intake. The substance was applied orally as 10 mg film tablets. The areas under the plasma concentration-time curves (AUC) amounted to 27.3 +/- 18.1 ng.h/ml (fasting) and 42.8 +/- 27.4 up to 54.3 +/- 38.4 ng.h/ml (non-fasting, intake before and after meal, resp.). The relative bioavailability under non-fasting conditions was found to be approx. 60 to 100% higher than under fasting conditions. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1417698/
Abstract: Tannins are increasingly recognized as dietary carcinogens and as antinutrients interfering with the system's full use of protein. Nevertheless, certain tannin-rich beverages, masticatories, and folk remedies, long utilized in African, Asiatic, Pacific, and Latin American countries, are now appearing in North American sundry shops and grocery stores. These include guarana (Paullinia cupana HBK.) from Brazil, kola nut (Cola nitida Schott & Endl. and C. acuminata Schott & Endl.) from West Africa, and betel nut (Areca catechu L.) from Malaya. The betel nut, or arecanut, has long been associated with oral and esophageal cancer because of its tannin content and the tannin contributed by the highly astringent cutch from Acacia catechu L. and Uncaria gambir Roxb. and the aromatic, astringent 'pan' (leaves of Piper betel L.) chewed with it. In addition to the constant recreational/social ingestion of these plant materials, they are much consumed as aphrodisiacs and medications. Guarana and kola nut enjoy great popularity in their native lands because they are also rich in caffeine, which serves as a stimulant. Research and popular education on the deleterious effects of excessive tannin intake could do much to reduce the heavy burden of early mortality and health care, especially in developing countries. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1417652/
Abstract: Acute hypoxemia at sea level is associated with decreased aldosterone secretion. This inhibition is thought to be mediated through secretion of atrial natriuretic factor (ANF). The interaction of these two hormones should result in enhanced renal salt excretion during hypoxemic conditions. This hypothesis was tested by administration of a standardized salt load to seven normal subjects during normoxemia at sea level (SL), acute hypoxemia (AH) at sea level, and high altitude (HA) (3,000 m). Urine and venous blood samples were collected and analyzed. A natriuresis and diuresis was observed only under AH conditions. It was accompanied by a decrease in plasma aldosterone levels, but did not correlate with changes in plasma aldosterone levels, ANF, or other hormones. Increased plasma renin activity (PRA) and increased norepinephrine levels were encountered at HA, suggesting sympathetic nervous system activation. No change in anti-diuretic hormone (ADH) levels with increased plasma osmolality was seen at HA. We conclude that excretion of a salt load during normobaric hypoxemia is enhanced by a decrease in plasma aldosterone levels, unrelated to changes in ANF or other hormones. The differences observed in norepinephrine, PRA, and ADH levels during HA versus AH conditions suggest that hypobaria or chronic hypoxemia may influence these hormonal responses. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1418092/
Abstract: Exercise training alters plasma lipoprotein profiles in a manner compatible with decreased coronary artery disease risk. The aim of this study was to ascertain whether interruption of training (detraining) was associated with potentially undesirable changes in the metabolism of post-prandial lipoproteins and plasma levels of Lp(a). Eight normolipidemic, male runners who ran 30-40 miles/week were studied in the trained state and after 14-22 days of detraining. Two of the subjects were studied in the reverse order to control for any confounding effects of exercise sequence. Detraining resulted in (1) a 12% (P = 0.002) reduction in the subjects' aerobic capacity, (2) a 7.7% (P = 0.007) reduction in fasting concentrations of high density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C), (3) a 21% (P = 0.01) reduction in post-heparin lipoprotein lipase activity. Lp(a) concentrations did not change significantly (mean increase 15%, P = 0.076). Fasting plasma concentrations of total cholesterol (TC), triglycerides (TG) and low density lipoprotein-cholesterol (LDL-C) did not change in the detrained state. There was little fluctuation over 24 h in plasma concentrations of TC, LDL-C and HDL-C in either the trained or detrained states. TG concentrations fluctuated over the 24 h in accord with food intake, but there were no exercise-related changes. Exercise had a dramatic effect on chylomicron and chylomicron remnant metabolism as measured by retinyl palmitate measurements. The mean areas under the concentration vs. time curves (AUC) for chylomicron-retinyl esters increased by 41% (P = 0.013) and for chylomicron remnant-retinyl ester by 37% (P = 0.058) following detraining.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS) 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1418095/
Abstract: Dietary intakes, anthropometric indices and plasma lipoprotein and alpha-tocopherol concentrations were measured in premenopausal vegetarian women of Indian descent (n = 22) and in white women of European descent consuming either mixed (n = 22) or vegetarian diets (n = 18). The Indian women were shorter in height than the white women and had a higher proportion of body fat. Energy intakes were lower in the Indian women, both in absolute terms and per kg body weight. The proportion of energy derived from saturated fatty acids was lower and that from polyunsaturated fatty acids was greater in both Indian and white vegetarians compared with the subjects on mixed diets. Intakes of dietary fibre and vitamins C and E were higher in the white vegetarians compared with the other groups. Plasma concentrations of total and LDL cholesterol and apolipoprotein B and the ratio of apolipoprotein B/apolipoprotein AI were lower and HDL and HDL2 cholesterol, alpha-tocopherol concentrations and the ratio of alpha-tocopherol/cholesterol were greater in the white vegetarian group than in the other groups. Total plasma cholesterol was associated with measures of truncal obesity, especially subscapular skinfold thickness and the percentage energy derived from saturated fatty acids. Plasma concentrations of apo(a) were higher and those of HDL and HDL2 cholesterol and sex hormone binding globulin (SHBG) were lower in the Indian vegetarian women compared with both groups of white women. No relationship could be found between apo(a), HDL and HDL2 cholesterol concentration and nutrient intake but HDL and HDL2 were negatively associated with the proportion of body fat and apo(a) weakly with subscapular skinfold thickness.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS) 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1418185/
Abstract: Seroepidemiological study of Vibrio cholerae exposure was carried out in Krabi Province during January 1989 to December 1990 using indirect ELISA to determine serum antibodies to lipopolysaccharides (LPS) of V. cholerae. Among 363 serum samples obtained from cord blood and venous blood of healthy persons, aged from 6 months to over 50 years, 65% and 64% were found positive for specific IgG and IgM against LPS of V. cholerae, respectively. The seroprevalence of V. cholerae infection increased with age from that found at 6 months, being highest in the age groups of 30-49 years for IgG and 15-29 years for IgM. The seroprevalence of V. cholerae infection was higher among female Muslims and home-makers, and increased with the family income. The seroprevalence of cholera infection was also influenced by home location, methods of food storage and water supply. These data suggested that a large number of Krabi's population had V. cholerae infection. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1418352/
Abstract: The abundance of both food and pharmaceuticals in much of Europe has brought serious health problems as well as benefits. It is no longer possible to assess the quality of most products on the basis of physical examination, and labels often carry information that is incomprehensible to lay persons. Governments should ensure that consumers can understand both the broad principles of healthy living and the nature of the foodstuffs and medicines on offer. It is also important that prescribers be kept abreast of developments in the pharmaceutical field. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1418353/
Abstract: Millions of people suffer and many die from lack of minute traces of nutrients. Methods of prevention are cheap and simple. Their universal application could yield health and economic benefits comparable to those achieved by smallpox eradication. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1418175/
Abstract: Twenty patients with propionic acidemia were reviewed retrospectively. Two groups were identified: those who presented in the first week of life (11 patients) or after the neonatal period (9 patients). The early onset of disease had a much higher death rate (hazard ratio: 7.52) and all patients in this group were mentally retarded (IQ < or = 60). Movement disorder was common in both groups. Of the early-onset group, 3 patients had mild chorea or dystonia. Four in the late-onset group had a severe movement disorder. In the late onset group, cranial computed tomography disclosed transient basal ganglia lucencies following an episode of metabolic decompensation; however, no disturbance in amine neurotransmitter metabolite concentrations were found in the cerebrospinal fluid. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1418261/
Abstract: The authors review a core of 25 articles (dating from 1982 through 1991) regarding medical school curricula and physicians' knowledge, attitudes, and practices related to nutritional care, with a focus on prevention of coronary heart disease through cholesterol control. They supplement this review by discussing the relation of the core articles' results to those of additional articles, which focus more generally on physicians' health promotion and patient counseling. While there appear to be modest increases in attention to nutrition at various levels of medical training and some improvement in physicians' attitudes about dietary intervention, the authors conclude that both educational opportunities and physicians' practices warrant increased and more effective attention to nutrition. Finally, in light of recent trends and growing efforts to better prepare physicians to play a leading role in preventive care, the authors identify gaps in physicians' training and in research on physicians, preventive care, and applied nutrition. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1431358/
Abstract: Food poisoning due to "Godofu (Sasayuki tofu)" as a main causative foodstuff which broke out on July 14, 1988. There were 670 out of 918 persons who ingested this food who became ill (incidence 73.0%). The main symptoms were diarrhea (93.4%), fever (77.5%), abdominal pain (64.5%), and vomiting (19.9%). A high degree of fever and watery diarrhea were characteristic of this poisoning. The average latent period was 35 hours with a range of one to 156. The O164:H- strains of enteroinvasive Escherichia coli (EIEC) were detected from 22 of the 32 fecal samples collected from the patients, five of ten samples collected from workers engaged in tofu making, and one sample of left-over Godofu. The virulence of EIEC strains isolated from the patients, workers, and left-over food was confirmed by invasion into HeLa and HEp-2 cells, Sereny test, and ELISA test to detect invasive plasmid-derived protein of the organism (conducted at Tokyo Metropolitan Research Laboratory of Public Health). These EIEC strains were sensitive (less than or equal to 0.19 to 6.25 micrograms/ml) to GM, ABPC, CBPC, CER, CET, NA, PB, MINO, TC and CP as well as KM and OFLX which were used for treatment. However, their susceptibility to FOM varied to some extent (6.25 to 25.0 micrograms/ml) and one strain isolated from a tofu worker was resistant to MINO, TC, FOM and CP (25 to greater than or equal to 100 micrograms/ml). Since investigation revealed that Godofu was left at room temperature about 29 degrees C until ingested, we did a experiment to check the bacterial growth in Godofu under similar conditions at the time of outbreak.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS) 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1431046/
Abstract: Necrotizing soft-tissue infections have been widely recognized for over a century, but they remain a challenging problem in clinical infectious disease. Patterns of disease are clearly apparent, but most are polymicrobial and derive increased virulence from synergy between bacteria. Early recognition and prompt surgical drainage are the keys to successful treatment. Edema extending beyond the area of erythema, skin vesicles, crepitus or air in the subcutaneous tissues, and absence of lymphangitis and lymphadenitis are markers of necrotizing infections, particularly when they occur in patients with serious underlying disease. Empiric broad-spectrum antibiotics, prophylactic heparin, and nutritional therapy are important adjuncts to aggressive "stepwise" surgical debridement. A knowledge of patterns of disease can aid in fine-tuning treatment to decrease morbidity. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1431357/
Abstract: An outbreak of municipal water-associated food poisoning by Salmonella Enteritidis occurred in Takatoh Town. Nagano prefecture during September 4 to 19, 1989. The major symptoms observed in the 680 patients consisted of diarrhea (70.9%), abdominal pain (51.2%), fever (44.6%), headache (27.9%), nausea (5.9%) and vomiting (5.7%). In the outbreak, S. Enteritidis was the only suspected etiological agent isolated from both patients and municipal water supply. All of the 21 isolates were lysine decarboxylase activity negative. In other respects, the isolates conformed to the general characteristics of Salmonella. All of them were further characterized by phagovar 8 type, uniform drug susceptibilities and carrying 2.7 kb plasmid. Inspite of the evidence that the infection caused by a peculiar strain linked to the strain in municipal water supply used by the patients, it was impossible to determine the exact source of contamination in the water. The outbreak above seems to be the most large-scale among those of Salmonella found poisoning associated with drinking water in Japan. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1431044/
Abstract: The critically ill surgical patient is at high risk for the development of ICU-acquired infection. Normal mucosal defenses are breached by surgical incisions or by intravascular devices, urinary catheters, and endotracheal tubes. The integrity of the gastrointestinal epithelium is compromised by the lack of enteral nutrition and episodes of hypoperfusion, resulting in translocation of normal or disturbed enteric flora. The indigenous microbial flora, an important component of normal host defenses against invasive infection, is disrupted through the use of broad-spectrum antibiotics or by poorly understood influences associated with critical illness. Systemic immunity is altered, and multiple abnormalities of specific and nonspecific immune function can be documented. Infections acquired within the ICU are commonly caused by endogenous organisms of low intrinsic pathogenicity, and the contribution of these infections to ICU outcome is controversial. Diagnosis is established by directed investigations, focusing on surgical sites and invasive devices. Therapy is primarily physical (drainage of infected collections or removal of contaminated devices), and antimicrobial therapy should employ narrow-spectrum agents guided by the results of Gram stain and culture. The prevention of ICU-acquired infection is based on timely and definitive surgical therapy, judicious use of invasive devices and antibiotics, and early enteral feeding. Infection-control measures aimed at endogenous reservoirs show some preliminary promise for certain subsets of patients, but remain, at present, experimental. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1431020/
Abstract: Because of the limitations in efficacy and safety of the older tricyclic antidepressants (TCA) and monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOI) a number of new approaches have been made in recent years to the treatment of depression to obtain more effective, more rapidly acting, better tolerated and safer drugs. One tactic has been to develop compounds with greater neuropharmacological selectivity in inhibiting the neuronal reuptake of 5-HT. Most of these are as effective as TCA but with fewer side-effects and greater safety. Another development has been 'reversible' MAOI which reduce the risk of interaction with tyramine-containing foods. For resistant depression the addition of lithium (and/or tryptophan) may be effective, possibly through promoting 5-HT neurotransmission. Continuous treatment with a selective 5-HT reuptake inhibitor can reduce the relapse rate in patients with recurrent depression. Unfortunately, these new approaches, despite their advantages in terms of side-effects and safety, have thus far not proved to be more effective or faster acting than the standard TCA. That remains a challenge for the future. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1431388/
Abstract: To investigate the relationship of efficacy of chemotherapy to host defense, we reviewed the clinical features, treatment and outcome in 648 patients with acute pneumonia (424 males and 224 females; mean age, 65 years) treated between 1984 and 1989. Pneumonia complicated pulmonary disease in 336 patients (52%) and complicated systemic disease in 258 (40%). Pneumonia pathogens were diagnosed in 346 patients (53%); the five major pathogens were S. pneumoniae (19%), H. influenzae (16%), S. aureus (14%), K. pneumoniae (14%) and P. aeruginosa (11%). The incidence of K. pneumoniae infection were decreased from 18% to 3.5% and that of S. aureus increased from 10.9% to 26.3% during the study period. The incidence of S. aureus and of P. aeruginosa infection was much higher in patients with nosocomial pneumonia, systemic disease, or serum protein concentration under 6.5 g/dl. beta-lactamase antibiotics were administered to 70% of all patients, with an efficacy rate of 74.9% of after the first course of antibiotics therapy. The efficacy rate was decreased in patients with nosocomial pneumonia, systemic or pulmonary disease, or malnutrition. The data presented in this study indicate that the risk of pneumonia must be taken into careful consideration in patients with compromising complications. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1431260/
Abstract: From 31 March through 3 April 1991, 8 New Jersey residents developed severe, watery diarrhea after eating crabmeat brought back in the suitcase of a traveler to Ecuador. Stool cultures yielded toxigenic Vibrio cholerae O1, serotype Inaba, biotype El Tor from 4 persons, and vibriocidal antibody titers were > or = 1:640 in 7 persons, indicating recent infection with Vibrio cholerae O1. Eating crab was statistically associated with illness (P = .006); however, no leftover crabmeat was available for testing. All 8 patients fully recovered and no cases of secondary transmission were reported. This was the first reported incident of cholera in the continental United States associated with food transported from an area with epidemic disease. Discouraging the transport of perishable souvenir seafood may prevent further outbreaks. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1431573/
Abstract: The partitioning of phosphatidylcholine (PC) molecular species between mixed micelles and vesicles was studied in each of seven human gallbladder biles. Biles were fractionated by Sephacryl S-300 SF gel filtration chromatography, and PC species in the micellar and vesicular fractions were quantitated by high performance liquid chromatography. Micelles were enriched in species containing unsaturated acyl groups (e.g., 16:1-18:2, 18:1-18:2, and 18:1-18:3); vesicles were enriched in more highly saturated species (e.g., 16:0-16:1, 16:0-18:1, and 18:0-18:1). Separate multivariate analyses for each bile demonstrated that the distribution of PC species between vesicles and micelles was related to the degree of sn-1 and sn-2 unsaturation, and sn-1, but not sn-2, chain length. In addition, the tendency to partition into the micellar phase was particularly marked when unsaturation was present at both the sn-1 and sn-2 positions. When this interaction was included in the multivariate analyses, the regression models accounted for virtually all of the variation in PC partitioning (for each of the seven patients r2 = 0.92-0.98, P less than 0.03). These results suggest that the partitioning of PC species between micelles and vesicles is strictly determined by sn-1 chain length and the degree of unsaturation at both the sn-1 and sn-2 positions. In light of recent reports that fatty acyl composition influences the cholesterol content of vesicles and micelles in model biles, these results raise the possibility that diet-induced alterations in the phospholipid species and the relative proportions of biliary lipid particles may influence the cholesterol-carrying capacity of bile. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1431504/
Abstract: To examine the influence of erythropoiesis on iron absorption, radioiron absorption tests were performed in normal subjects before and after a course of recombinant erythropoietin. The absorption of heme and nonheme iron from a standard meal was measured in nine subjects, and the absorption of a therapeutic dose of ferrous sulfate given with or without food was determined in an additional 11 subjects. The subcutaneous administration of 100 U recombinant human erythropoietin/kg body weight given on 10 successive days over a 2-week period induced a brisk increase in erythropoiesis and a sharp decrease in iron stores. With the standard meal, there was a modest increase in heme iron absorption from 47.0% to 58.6% (p < 0.05) and a dramatic five-fold rise in nonheme iron absorption from 5.9% to 31.8% (p < 0.001). The absorption of 50 mg iron as ferrous sulfate increased from 2.0% to 17.9% when given with food (p < 0.001) and from 7.0% to 24.6% when given with water (p < 0.001). To assess the effect of erythropoiesis independently of the induced changes in iron status, the absorption data were adjusted to a common serum ferritin level. The relative increase in iron absorption was still significant for both dietary nonheme iron (ratio 2.51, p < 0.02) and ferrous sulfate given with food (ratio 2.99, p < 0.01). It is concluded that the striking enhancement of iron absorption following regular erythropoietin administration in normal subjects is related to the combined effect of diminished iron stores and augmented erythropoiesis. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1431586/
Abstract: A new method is described for the rapid preparation of apolipoproteins for polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. It is suitable for all serum lipoproteins including chylomicrons. The procedure involves extraction with diethyl ether in the presence of trichloroacetic acid and sodium deoxycholate. The method gives an improved protein recovery, in particular with chylomicrons. In addition, samples do not require dialysis to remove salts (e.g., KBr) prior to processing; as a consequence, the procedure requires only 1 h. Due to this rapidity and the high yields, the procedure is superior to present methods utilizing ethanol-diethyl ether extraction. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1431582/
Abstract: The effect of additional dietary trans fatty acids (7% energy) on plasma lipids was assessed in a double-blind comparison of four separate diets: 1, enriched with butter fat (lauric-myristic-palmitic); 2, oleic acid-rich; 3, elaidic acid-rich; 4, palmitic acid-rich. The total dietary period was 11 weeks and comprised normal foods plus specific fat supplements. In 27 mildly hypercholesterolemic men, total and LDL cholesterol were significantly lower during the 3-week oleic acid-rich diet, and were similar during the other three diets. For the four diets LDL cholesterol levels were in mg/dl: 1, 163; 2, 151; 3, 165; 4, 161. HDL cholesterol was significantly higher with the palmitic acid-rich diet, 42 mg/dl, compared with elaidic acid, 38 mg/dl, which in turn was not lower than with oleic acid, 38 mg/dl. Plasma elaidic acid concentration rose seven-fold with the trans fatty acid diet but did not increase the vulnerability of LDL to oxidative change. The elaidic acid-rich diet led to significant elevations in the level of Lp[a] compared to all the other test diets. The Lp[a] level increased to 296 +/- 220 U/l in the elaidic acid-rich period from 235 +/- 182 (mean +/- SD) in the first ("butter") period (P less than 0.001) compared with 249 +/- 204 in the palmitic acid period (P less than 0.001) and 236 +/- 201 in the oleic acid period (NS).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS) 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1431574/
Abstract: Serum lipoprotein[a] (Lp[a]) is a strong risk factor for coronary heart disease. We therefore examined the effect of dietary fatty acid composition on serum Lp[a] levels in three strictly controlled experiments with healthy normocholesterolemic men and women. In Expt. I, 58 subjects consumed a control diet high in saturated fatty acids for 17 days. For the next 36 days, 6.5% of total energy intake from saturated fatty acids was replaced by monounsaturates plus polyunsaturates (monounsaturated fatty acid diet; n = 29) or by polyunsaturates alone (polyunsaturated fatty acid diet; n = 29). Both diets caused a slight, nonsignificant, increase in median Lp[a] levels, with no difference between diets. In Expt. II, 10% of energy from the cholesterol-raising saturated fatty acids (lauric, myristic, and palmitic acid) was replaced by oleic acid or by trans-monounsaturated fatty acids. Each of the 59 participants received each diet for 3 weeks in random order. The median level of Lp[a] was 26 mg/l on the saturated fatty acid diet; it increased to 32 mg/l (P less than 0.020) on the oleic acid diet and to 45 mg/l (P less than 0.001) on the trans-fatty acid diet. The difference in Lp[a] between the trans-fatty acid and the oleic acid diets was also highly significant (P less than 0.001). Expt. III involved 56 subjects; all received 8% of energy from stearic acid, from linoleic acid, or from trans-monounsaturates, for 3 weeks each. All other nutrients were equal.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS) 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1431644/
Abstract: Physical abuse of children by burning is a serious crime that leaves the youngest of our children with permanent physical and emotional scars. The victims tends to be less than 2 years of age. Burn-abused children usually suffer from a spectrum of physical, psychologic, and nutritional neglect. Burn abuse is costly in terms of pain, suffering and health care. Up to 15% of acutely injured children seen in emergency departments, admitted or not, have been abused. Burns were involved in up to 22% of physical abuse cases. Up to 26% of pediatric burn admissions were the result of abuse. The most common form of burn abuse in children requiring hospitalization is the scald. Physicians who treat children and burn patients should have a knowledge of the literature and clinical factors associated with pediatric burn abuse. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1431719/
Abstract: Study objective:
        
      
      The aim was to investigate whether dietary factors cluster in a favourable or unfavourable way and to characterise the groups identified by lifestyle and sociodemographic variables. Design and setting:
        
      
      This cross sectional study was based on data of the 1987-1988 Dutch national food consumption survey (DNFCS), obtained from a panel by a stratified probability sample of the non-institutionalised Dutch population. Participants:
        
      
      3781 adults (1802 males and 1979 females) of the DNFCS, aged 19 to 85 years, were studied. Measurements and main results:
        
      
      To estimate dietary intake two day food records were used. Lifestyle factors were collected by structured questionnaire and sociodemographic variables were available from panel information. Cluster analysis was used to classify subjects into groups based on similarities in dietary variables. Subsequently, these groups were characterised by sociodemographic and lifestyle factors as well as by the consumption of food groups. Eight clusters were found. In comparison with the guidelines, the dietary quality in four clusters was poor. The cluster with the poorest dietary intake (high intake of fat, cholesterol, and alcohol; low intake of dietary fibre) showed on average a high consumption of animal products (except milk), fats and oils, snacks, and alcoholic beverages, and a low consumption of fruit, potatoes, vegetables, and sugar rich products. Smoking, body mass index, dietary regimen on own initiative, hours of sleep, gender, age, socioeconomic status, and day of the week were found to discriminate among the clusters. Conclusions:
        
      
      Cluster analysis resulted in substantial differences in mean nutrient intake and seems useful for dietary risk group identification. Undesirable lifestyle habits were interrelated in some clusters, but an exclusive lifestyle for health risk has not been found. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1431718/
Abstract: Study objective:
        
      
      As there is a social status gradient in chronic disease mortality in Australia, this study aimed to establish whether there were substantial differences among socioeconomically defined groups with respect to food choice and nutrient intake, in the context of risk of nutrition related chronic diseases. Design and participants:
        
      
      Cross sectional data were collected from a randomly selected population sample of 1500 urban Australian adults. Data were collected by postal questionnaire, which included an assessment of dietary intake and questions on sociodemographic details. Three measures of social position were collected: occupation, educational status, and income status. Occupation was interpreted both on a continuous, prestige scale, and also as categorical occupational groupings. Main results:
        
      
      The study achieved a 70% response rate. Higher social status was generally associated with healthier dietary intakes, with lower fat and refined sugar densities, and higher fibre densities, but also with higher alcohol density. No differences were found in salt, polyunsaturated fat, protein, or complex carbohydrate densities across groups. Food intake differences were also found between occupational status groups, with the upper social groups tending to consume more wholegrain cereal foods, low fat milk, and fruit, and less refined cereal foods, full cream milk, fried meat, meat products, and discretionary sugar; but also more cheese and meat dishes. Conclusions:
        
      
      Although this study did show statistically significant differences across social status groups in relation to nutrient and food intakes, these differences were small compared to the disparity between intakes of all groups and the recommended patterns of intake, and did not appear to be great enough to be a major explanatory variable in differences in disease risk across groups. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1431726/
Abstract: Study objective:
        
      
      The aim was to compare the demographic characteristics and health related behaviours of people who consented to a medical examination as part of a population survey with those who did not. Study design:
        
      
      The study formed part of the (1985) Welsh Heart Health Survey, which comprised a three stage design involving household interview, self completion questionnaire, and medical examination. Subjects for medical examination were selected from responders to the questionnaire survey (67%). Sixty six per cent of this group consented to medical examination (n = 11,637). Odds ratio analysis techniques were used to compare consenters and non-consenters. Measurements and main results:
        
      
      The analysis was based on self reported information available from previously completed questionnaires, and from personal interviews. The study supported the findings of previous research indicating that consenters to medical examination are more likely to be from non-manual social groups, to be aged 25-44 years, to be educated beyond school age, and to be married. Individuals with healthy lifestyle characteristics (diet, physical activity) were overrepresented among consenters. The only exception to this finding was in relation to excessive alcohol consumption. Conclusions:
        
      
      These findings emphasise the importance of maximising response rates in all forms of social research including surveys with a clinical component. They also have methodological and analytical implications for the Welsh Heart Health Survey. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1431597/
Abstract: The goal of the current study was to determine the mechanism of the hypocholesterolemic effect of psyllium using a randomized, double-blind, crossover design. Twenty males (age 44 +/- 4 yr, weight 79 +/- 10 kg) with moderate hypercholesterolemia (total 265 +/- 17 mg/dl, low density lipoprotein (LDL) 184 +/- 15 mg/dl) were studied at baseline (B) and after randomization to receive a 40-day course of 15 g/day of either psyllium (Ps) or placebo (Pl) (cellulose). After a washout period (11 +/- 2 days), subjects were crossed over to the other fiber treatment for an additional 40 days and restudied. Intestinal cholesterol absorption, cholesterol synthesis in isolated peripheral blood mononuclear cells, bile acid kinetics, gallbladder motility, and intestinal transit were measured at each study period. Psyllium lowered LDL cholesterol (x:184 (B), 169 (Ps), and 179 (Pl) mg/dl; Ps vs. B,Pl: P less than 0.004, P less than 0.02), decreased relative cholesterol absorption (x:51 (B), 45 (Ps), and 49 (Pl) %; Ps vs. B,Pl: P less than 0.03, P less than 0.03), did not alter absolute cholesterol absorption, and increased the fractional turnover of both chenodeoxycholic acid (x:0.176 (B), 0.203 (Ps), and 0.170 (Pl) day-1; Ps vs. B,Pl: P less than 0.0001, P less than 0.01) and cholic acid (x:0.303 (B), 0.411 (Ps), and 0.301 (Pl) d-1; Ps vs. B, Pl: P less than 0.006, P less than 0.002). Bile acid synthesis increased in subjects whose LDL cholesterol was lowered by more than 10% (Ps vs. B: 1304 +/- 489 vs 992 +/- 307 mumol/day, P less than 0.006; Ps vs. PI: 1304 +/- 489 vs. 914 +/- 321 mumol/day, P less than 0.0002). We conclude that psyllium lowers LDL cholesterol primarily via stimulation of bile acid synthesis. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1431589/
Abstract: Lipoprotein lipase (LPL) releases fatty acids from triglyceride-rich lipoproteins for use in cellular metabolic reactions. How this hydrolysis, which occurs at the vascular endothelium, is regulated is poorly understood. A fatty acid feedback system has been proposed by which accumulation of fatty acids impedes LPL-catalyzed hydrolysis and dissociates the enzyme from its endothelial binding sites. We examined this hypothesis in humans who were subjected to an oral fat tolerance test of a mixed-meal type. Plasma triglycerides, free fatty acids, and LPL activity were measured before and repeatedly during a 12-h period after intake of the fat load. Since soybean oil with a high content of linoleic fatty acid was the source of triglycerides, a distinction could be made between endogenous free fatty acids (FFA) and FFA derived directly from lipolysis of postprandial triglyceride-rich lipoproteins. Mean LPL activity was almost doubled (P less than 0.01) 6 h after intake of the oral fat load. The rise in LPL activity was accompanied by an increase of plasma triglycerides and linoleic free fatty acids (18:2 FFA), but not of total plasma FFA, which instead displayed a heterogeneous pattern with essentially unchanged mean levels. The postprandial response of LPL activity largely paralleled the postprandial responses of 18:2 FFA and triglycerides. The highest degree of parallelism was seen between postprandial 18:2 FFA and LPL activity levels. Furthermore, the integrated response (area under the curve, AUC) for plasma measurements of LPL correlated with the AUC for 18:2 FFA (r = 0.40, P less than 0.05), but not with the AUC for plasma triglycerides (r = 0.21, ns). The high degree of parallelism and significant correlation between postprandial plasma LPL activity and 18:2 FFA support the hypothesis of fatty acid control of endothelial LPL during physiological conditions in humans. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1432008/
Abstract: Several intellectual "autopsies" have recently reviewed errors in clinical epidemiologic studies of causation, such as the original claim that amyl nitrite "poppers" caused AIDS. The current autopsy was done to determine why it took more than a decade--1942 to 1954--to end an iatrogenic epidemic in which high-dose oxygen therapy led to retrolental fibroplasia (RLF) in premature infants, blinding about 10,000 of them. The autopsy revealed a museum of diverse intellectual pathology. When first noted, RLF was regarded as neither a new disease nor a postnatal effect. In early investigations, the ophthalmologists did not establish explicit criteria for diagnosis and confused RLF with malformations previously seen in full-term infants. Because the patients were not referred until months after birth, the ophthalmologists assumed that the lesion, which resembled an embryologic structure, must have occurred prenatally. Other events suggesting a prenatal cause for RLF were its strong statistical associations with fetal anomalies, multiple gestations, and maternal infections. Although these events were also associated with prematurity, it was ignored when the RLF cases were compared with controls who were mainly full-term infants. The postnatal timing of RLF was eventually recognized when investigators did cohort studies in premature infants and found that RLF could develop in eyes that were normal at birth. As the search for a cause turned to events occurring after birth, statistical associations were produced for agents such as light, vitamins, iron, vitamin E deficiency, and hypoadrenalism. Each study had its own methodologic flaws: controls were missing for light; co-maneuvers were ignored for vitamins and iron; objective diagnosis was not used for vitamin E deficiency; and the research on hypoadrenalism contained biases in susceptibility and detection as well as problems of a competing outcome event. When the role of oxygen administration was first considered, the statistical association with RLF was stronger for vitamin- and iron-therapy than for oxygen. In addition, many investigators were dissuaded by contradictory evidence from institutions in which RLF was either absent despite high-dose oxygen or persistent despite reduced dosage. The contradictory evidence was later regarded as erroneous because of unsatisfactory delivery systems for the oxygen or failure to check the actual oxygen concentrations. An alternative explanatory hypothesis, rejecting the role of high-dose and long-duration oxygen, was the idea that RLF was due to "relative hypoxia", produced by overly rapid weaning from oxygen therapy rather than the duration of oxygen treatment itself.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS) 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1432017/
Abstract: The relationship between alcohol consumption and the risk of epithelial ovarian cancer was analysed using data from a case-control study of 801 histologically confirmed epithelial ovarian cancers and 2114 controls in hospital for acute, non-neoplastic, gynecological, or hormone-related conditions, admitted to a network of teaching and general hospitals in the greater Milan area, northern Italy, i.e. a region with comparatively frequent alcohol consumption by women. Compared to alcohol abstainers, the multivariate relative risks (RRs) were 1.0 [95% confidence interval (CI), 0.7 to 1.4] for less than one, 1.1. (95% CI 0.9 to 1.6) for one to two, 1.2 (95% CI 1.0 to 1.5) for two to three and 1.3 (95% CI 0.9 to 1.8) for three or more drinks per day. A significant direct trend in risk with dose emerged. This finding chiefly derived from an association between ovarian cancer risk and consumption of wine (which accounts for over 90% of alcohol intake in this female population). Although no significant interaction between the effect of alcohol consumption and various women's characteristics emerged, there was a hint that the adverse influence of alcohol consumption is more marked in middle-age and less educated women. Thus, the results of this study suggest that relatively elevated alcohol intake (of the order of 40 g per day or more) may cause a modest increase of epithelial ovarian cancer risk. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1432058/
Abstract: 1. During chewing, a small part of the observed muscle activity is needed for the basic open-close movements of the mandible, and much additional muscle activity (AMA) is needed to overcome the resistance of the food. In chewing cycles in which a counteracting force is expected, the AMA is mainly generated by peripheral induction with a latency of approximately 23 ms. It was investigated whether an open-loop or closed-loop mechanism is involved in the control of the AMA in these cycles. 2. Subjects made rhythmic open-close movements at their natural chewing frequency controlled by a metronome. Food resistance was simulated by an external force, acting on the jaw in a downward direction during part of the closing movement. Sequences of cycles with a force were unexpectedly alternated with sequences of cycles with a different force. The force changed from 19 to 0 N and vice versa, and from 25 to 6 N and vice versa. Jaw movement and surface electromyogram of the masseter, temporalis, and suprahyoid muscles on both sides were recorded during cycles before and after the transition from one force condition to another. 3. The movement trajectory and AMA of the second and following cycles with a new force appeared to be similar. Thus adaptation to the changed circumstances occurred within two open-close cycles. 4. In the first cycle with 0 or 6 N in the 19----0 N and 25----6 N experiments respectively, a large part of the AMA had disappeared. The AMA in this cycle started to differ from the AMA in the previous cycle approximately 23 ms after the moment the force in this cycle started to differ from the previous cycle. 5. In the first cycle with 19 or 25 N in the reverse experiments, the AMA increased 120-136 ms after the moment the force in this cycle started to differ from the previous cycle. 6. During the closing phase of each open-close cycle, no muscle activity of the suprahyoid muscles was observed; thus co-contraction with the elevator muscles did not occur. 7. It was concluded that the AMA is under control of a closed-loop mechanism with a latency of approximately 23 ms. However, the reflex output has a maximum, depending on information about the food resistance gained in previous cycles.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS) 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1432104/
Abstract: Monoamine oxidase A and B (MAO A and B) play important roles in the metabolism of biogenic and dietary amines and are encoded by two genes derived from a common ancestral gene. The promoter regions for human MAO A and B genes have been characterized using a series of 5' flanking sequences linked to a human growth hormone reporter gene. When these constructs were transfected into NIH3T3, SHSY-5Y, and COS7 cells, the maximal promoter activity for MAO A was found in a 0.14 kilobase (kb) PvuII/DraII fragment (A0.14) and in a 0.15 kb PstI/NaeI fragment (B0.15) for MAO B. Both fragments are GC-rich, contain potential Sp1 binding sites, and are in the region where the MAO A and B 5' flanking sequences share the highest identity (approximately 60%). However, the organization of the transcription elements is distinctly different between these two promoters. Fragment A0.14 consists of three Sp1 elements, all in reversed orientations, and lacks a TATA box. Two of the Sp1 sites are located within the downstream 90 base pair (bp) direct repeat, and the third is located at the 3' end of the upstream 90 bp direct repeat. Fragment B0.15 contains an Sp1-CACCC-Sp1-TATA structure; deletion of any of these elements reduced promoter activity. Additional Sp1 sites, CACCC elements, CCAAT boxes, and direct repeats (four 30 bp direct repeats in MAO A and two 29 bp direct repeats in MAO B) are found in farther-upstream sequences of both genes (1.27 kb for MAO A and mostly in 0.2 kb for MAO B). Inclusion of these sequences decreased promoter activity. The different promoter organization of MAO A and B genes provides the basis for their different tissue- and cell-specific expression. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1432273/
Abstract: Pregnancy outcome for 233 women in prison was reviewed. This group of patients presented with multiple perinatal high-risk factors: history of illicit drug use (71%), smoking (70%), and obstetrical (27%), medical (21%), nutritional (20%), and infectious complications (20%). Maternal morbidity was uncommon and the overall cesarean section rate for all prisoners was 16%. There was 1 stillbirth and 236 live-born infants, all of whom were discharged in good health. Prematurity (3%) and delivery of small-for-gestational-age (SGA) (8%) infants was less common among 187 women who received adequate prenatal care than in 46 prisoners with poor or late prenatal care (prematurity 20% and SGA 28%). Good perinatal outcome for women in prison can be achieved if comprehensive prenatal care is available. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1432254/
Abstract: The National Cholesterol Education Program (NCEP) guidelines recommend dietary restriction of fat and cholesterol to reduce high circulating cholesterol concentrations in adult Americans. Thus, diet counselors recommend consumption of fewer than four egg yolks per week. The present protocol was designed to determine whether the efficacy of an NCEP diet would be reduced by the incorporation of 12 modified eggs per week, and whether the resulting low fat, high cholesterol diet would increase serum lipid concentrations in adults with initial undesirably high (5.17-7.76 mmol/L) concentrations of serum total cholesterol. Feeding a controlled ration to laying hens produced modified eggs that consistently contained more vitamin E and iodine, and more unsaturated fat, than generic eggs. Subjects were randomly assigned to and NCEP diet including either no whole eggs or 12 whole study eggs a week. Ninety-eight subjects completed the parallel study. Subjects in both groups significantly reduced their serum total, LDL and HDL cholesterol (P < 0.001 for total and LDL cholesterol, P < 0.02 for HDL cholesterol) over the 6 wk of study. No significant differences were found between diet groups. We conclude that the study eggs did not adversely affect measured lipid concentrations when added to a low fat diet that favorably alters lipid profiles in hypercholesterolemic subjects. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1432255/
Abstract: Lycopene and beta-carotene are the most abundant carotenoids in human blood and tissues. Although lacking provitamin A activity, lycopene may be biologically active by contributing to the antioxidative defense system of the organism. We studied the uptake of lycopene from processed (boiled with 1% corn oil for 1 h) and unprocessed tomato juice in humans. Lycopene concentrations in human serum increased only when processed tomato juice was consumed. Lycopene uptake varied with individuals, but peak serum concentrations were always reached between 24 and 48 h. The carotenoid was eliminated from serum with a half-life of 2-3 d. The increase in peak serum concentrations was dose-dependent but not linear with the dose. Repeated doses led to a continual rise of lycopene in human serum. Of the different geometrical isomers (all-trans, 9-cis and 13-cis), the cis isomers seemed to be somewhat better absorbed than the all-trans form. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1432407/
Abstract: The resurgence of the use of LSD by a young, inexperienced population increases the likelihood of the occurrence of adverse psychedelic reactions. While the treatment of choice remains supportive, nonjudgmental talkdown, intramuscular lorazepam and haloperidol offer invaluable and specific adjuncts to care. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1471204/
Abstract: In the late 1970s new legislation was set up in industrialized countries to protect the environment. This has led to the definition of a new branch of science: ecotoxicology. The main objective of applied ecotoxicological research is the elucidation of indications of toxicity to be utilized for risk assessment and hazard evaluation for the management of potentially harmful chemicals. The development of predictive approaches for the hazard assessment of chemical substances has given an increased relevance to exposure evaluation. This paper discusses methods and processes used to estimate and assess the environmental distribution and fate of chemicals for the ultimate purpose of determining exposure of the general population via soil, water, food or air. Parameters useful for the assessment of risk for different time and space scales are discussed. A collaboration between toxicologists and ecotoxicologists is proposed to improve the management of chemical substances. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1471168/
Abstract: Laws regulating toxicology (e.g. toxic thresholds allowed, poison classes or definition of necessary preclinical testing) might improve health and save lives. Scientific facts will always serve as a mandatory base for political decision-making, but there will also be additional influences (perception and acceptance of risks, possible benefits, economic considerations etc.). These latter factors may vary considerably from one society to another. The Delaney clause prohibited the marketing of any product which was found to be carcinogenic in animals. Due to their benefits, exceptions were made for drugs. In other countries, too, other chemicals could be an exception due to a different perception of the risk or different scientific evaluation. Clear cases of major events always trigger changes in legislation. When in 1937 a newly-marketed sulfanilamide elixir led to severe kidney damage and 70 deaths, the FDA quickly endorsed the propositions of the investigation team set up by the American Medical Association: animal testing in two species with histopathologic examination before a marketing authorization could be granted became mandatory. A similarly rapid reaction followed in Europe when it was detected that Thalidomide was responsible for malformations in the offspring of mothers who had taken the drug in early pregnancy. When the effects are more difficult to link to a chemical, there may be time delays in regulatory actions. However, a sophisticated evaluation system was introduced for better monitoring of drug and chemical hazards. Some examples will be given in order to discuss the difficulties of timely and appropriate use of scientific findings. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1471234/
Abstract: It is generally accepted that there are differences among workers in susceptibility towards the effects of mineral dusts such as silica, coal dust and asbestos. Basic research continues to find new factors involved in the process of pulmonary fibrosis caused by these minerals. In this paper, two hypotheses implicitly generated by recent findings were tested in two case-control studies among coal miners: generation of tumour necrosis factor (TNF) by blood monocytes of miners with coal workers' pneumoconiosis (CWP) and serum type III procollagen peptide (PIIIP) in CWP. Our data indicate that both parameters can be used as biological markers for early diagnosis of CWP. A follow-up study is described in which the predictive power of increased TNF release and serum PIIIP as risk factor to develop lung fibrosis will be assessed. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1470965/
Abstract: Drug and alcohol abuse continue to be commonly encountered problems in most patient populations. To deal effectively with these problems, the primary care physician must have a thorough knowledge of the pharmacology of commonly abused drugs and the adjunctive agents used in treatment. Management of alcoholism may involve a range of medical interventions, including the treatment of alcohol intoxication, the use of benzodiazepines for alcohol withdrawal, and possibly the short-term administration of disulfiram to maintain sobriety. Successful management of cocaine or amphetamine abuse requires an understanding of the powerful reinforcing properties of these drugs and the unique problems that arise in the recovery period. Barbiturate intoxication and withdrawal are potentially life-threatening events requiring skilled in-patient treatment. Prolonged use of benzodiazepines can lead to drug dependence; successful withdrawal involves gradual dosage reduction. Acute intoxication from marijuana or hallucinogenic drugs may occasionally result in adverse reactions requiring medical intervention, but significant withdrawal reactions are rare. Management of opioid overdose, whether illicit or iatrogenic, requires the prompt and skillful use of opioid overdose, whether illicit or iatrogenic, requires the prompt and skillful use of opioid antagonists. Promising new pharmacologic approaches are now being successfully applied to the management of opioid dependence. An acceptance of nicotine as the addictive component of tobacco smoke has led to the development of nicotine gum as substitution therapy for cigarette smoking. Successful pharmacologic management of overdose or withdrawal is often the prerequisite for effective long-term treatment and recovery. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1471106/
Abstract: Persons who contacted the Anorexia/Bulimia Association of Norway for information and stated that they had an eating disorder were asked to participate in this questionnaire study. The answers from the 32 women who fulfilled the DSM-III-R criteria for bulimia nervosa are presented. Usually the women's eating problems had started in the teens after a period of voluntary dieting. The mean duration of bulimia nervosa was six years. 31% had a history of anorexia nervosa. At the time of the study almost all had normal body weight, but nevertheless felt overweight. 78% practised self-induced vomiting, 22% used laxatives and 16% used diuretics to reduce weight. Depressive and anxiety symptoms were common in connection with the overeating episodes, but also more generally, which interfered with everyday life. Somatic symptoms (abdominal pain, diarrhoea, constipation, dyspepsia, headache, dry mouth and eyes, parotid gland swelling, muscular symptoms, fatigue, and oligomenorrhoea) were also common. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1471212/
Abstract: In Spain early in May 1981, 20,000 people became ill with a severe acute respiratory illness. The eosinophilia and subsequent myalgia, scleroderma and muscle wasting indicated a unique disease entity. Epidemiological evidence linked the disease with the consumption of oils containing "refined" aniline denatured rape seed oil. Ten years after the explosive appearance of this disease (approximately 350 deaths and over 1000 in the chronic phase) the clinical and pathological description is now well established. The aetiological agent(s) in the food oil are unknown and the mechanism(s) of pathogenesis are uncertain. There is no experimental animal model. A new disease, Eosinophilia Myalgia Syndrome (EMS) which appeared late in 1989 in the USA, is due to the consumption of impure 1-tryptophan. There may be similarities between the diseases and the aetiological agents for TOS and EMS: possibilities for future research will be discussed. Underlying the time lag for solution of this problem is a lack of knowledge of the basic biology involved. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1471456/
Abstract: Thyroxine-binding globulin, the highest affinity thyroid hormone binder of rat serum, was studied during 28 days of dietary protein restriction (6% protein vs 18% protein in isocaloric control diet) or energy restriction (60% intake of control diet). Studies were performed on male rats aged four weeks at the beginning of experiments: the animals had reached the ontogenic stage when the thyroxine-binding globulin had declined, after its high postnatal surge, to undetectable levels. Short-term administration (seven days) of one or the other restricted diet similarly induced resynthesis of the protein. Its serum concentrations reached 26-46% of those measured in eight-day pups (peak of the neonatal surge) and its liver mRNAs showed corresponding enhanced signals. Serum T4 binding activities were increased, although concomitantly transthyretin, second specific T4 carrier of the rat serum, decreased markedly (65-75% of controls) in response to the dietary restrictions. Longer-term diet administration (14 or 28 days) resulted in the further increase of the thyroxine-binding globulin in the protein-restricted rats, in contrast to its decline and eventual disappearance in the energy-restricted animals. Protein restriction was associated with increased total and free T3 serum concentrations, in contrast to energy restriction which little affected these parameters. These studies reveal rat thyroxine-binding globulin as a positive (increasing), highly sensitive reactant of malnutrition, able to discriminate between energy deficiency and composition dysequilibrium of diets. They suggest that up-regulation of its synthesis in the two dietary models involves differential mechanisms. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1471547/
Abstract: After ingestion, disulfiram (DSF) is rapidly converted, probably in the stomach, to its bis (diethyldithiocarbamato) copper complex. Consequently, absorption and distribution via the gastrointestinal mucosa into the blood might involve both the parent drug and its copper complex. In the blood, both compounds are rapidly degraded to form diethyldithiocarbamic acid (DDC), which is unstable and is further degraded to form diethylamine and carbon disulphide. DDC is also a substrate of phase II metabolism, which involves formation of diethyldithiomethylcarbamate (Me-DDC) and the glucuronic acid of DDC. Me-DDC also undergoes oxidative biotransformation to diethylthiomethylcarbamate (Me-DTC), which is further oxidized to its corresponding sulphoxide and sulphone metabolites. Me-DTC may to act as a suicide inhibitor with a preference for the mitochondrial low Km isozyme of aldehyde dehydrogenases (ALDH 1), whereas the two S-oxidized metabolites, especially the sulfone metabolite, are more potent inhibitors not only of ALDH 1, but also of the cytosolic high Km isozyme of ALDH (ALDH 2). The inhibitory reaction between the enzyme and each of the three metabolites is characterized by a covalent adduct formation, probably with the cysteine residue at the active site of the enzymes. The adduct formed is nonreducible at a physiological concentration of glutathione, and inactivation in the presence of this endogenous tripeptide was increased by action in vitro of the sulphoxide and sulphone metabolites. Those findings are all in concordance with the in vivo observations made on DSF. In human volunteers treated with increasing doses of DSF and challenged with ethanol between each of the dosage periods, the mean plasma concentrations of Me-DTC at steady state were proportional to the DSF doses given. There was also a close relationship between increased oxidative metabolic formation of Me-DTC, high oxidative formation of acetaldehyde, and the full complements of a valid disulfiram ethanol reaction (DER). Consequently, Me-DTC in plasma may not only serve as a marker of the oxidative metabolic function of the liver, but also of the therapeutic effectiveness of the treatment in subjects at steady state. Obviously, there is a need for individual dose-titration regimens. In patients with alcohol-related severe hepatocellular damage, the oxidative P 450 catalyzed formation of the Me-DTC and probably also of its sulfoxide and sulphone metabolites is impaired, and thus inactivation of ALDH activity in the liver appears to be delayed or even completely absent. The consequence for the patient may be an insufficient DER.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS) 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1471521/
Abstract: The nutritional status was evaluated prospectively in 47 consecutive patients who were amputated for lower extremity ischemia. It was good in 13 patients, reduced in 18, and poor in 16. Malnourished patients had a higher frequency of impaired wound healing, and an increased risk of postoperative cardiopulmonary and septic complications; all 6 deaths occurred in these groups. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1471638/
Abstract: Guidelines are presented for pharmacist coordination of the importation for use by institutionalized patients of drugs not currently approved by the FDA. A prerequisite for importation of foreign drugs is that traditional therapies have failed or are not an option. Steps that are required for drug importation and administration include completing an investigational new-drug application, obtaining institutional review board approval, obtaining informed consent, contacting a customs broker or the local FDA district import program manager, arranging for drug shipment, and documenting receipt and administration of the drug. Conditions are described under which portions of this process may be waived. By helping to ensure compliance with FDA requirements, pharmacists can expedite drug importation for institutionalized patients. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1471556/
Abstract: Disulfiram (Antabuse) is one of several aldehyde dehydrogenase (ALDH) inhibitors that raise the plasma level of acetaldehyde following ethanol ingestion. The usually pleasant reaction to ethanol is thereby changed to an unpleasant one, owing to a number of bodily reactions to acetaldehyde. Populations showing genetic polymorphism with a lack of some isozymes of ALDH have exhibited an intolerance to ethanol similar to that seen with disulfiram. A normal isozyme pattern seems to be a prerequisite for the development of alcoholism, which supports the principle of disulfiram treatment. Disulfiram is an irreversible ALDH inhibitor when administered in vivo. Diethylthiomethylcarbamate (Me-DTC) is formed from disulfiram in three metabolic steps. This compound and two further oxidized metabolites appear to be active metabolites of disulfiram. Measurements of plasma Me-DTC or the reduction of leucocyte ALDH 1 activity may be valuable markers for the proper dose titration of disulfiram and the rational use of this drug. Some toxicological points are discussed. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1471602/
Abstract: A detailed overview of the various forms of hyperlipidemia/dyslipidemia that constitute a major risk factor for coronary heart disease and a detailed discussion of the various types of cholesterol-lowering drugs are presented. The importance of identifying the type of dyslipidemia with respect to the choice of treatment is emphasized, as is the use of nonpharmacologic intervention, i.e., diet, exercise, and weight loss. The appropriate use and benefits of bile acid sequestrants, nicotinic acid, fibric acids, 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase inhibitors, and probucol are individually discussed, whereas nonpharmacologic approaches used in conjunction with the drugs are recommended emphatically. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1471538/
Abstract: Patients with anorexia nervosa (AN) tend to have renin-angiotensin-aldosterone (RAA) abnormalities caused by abnormal behaviors such as strict dieting, fasting, vigorous exercise, self-induced vomiting and abuse of laxatives and/or diuretics. Adrenal responsiveness to angiotensin II (A II) was studied in 13 AN patients before and after therapy and in 6 normal sex- and age-matched controls: adrenal responses to postural change (1 h of walking following 1 h in a supine position) and to exogenous A II injection (A II: 10 ng/kg/min intravenous infusion for 30 min). The 24-h urine sodium concentration was significantly lower in AN patients before therapy than after therapy. Plasma aldosterone secretory response to A II was significantly higher in AN patients before therapy in both postural change and exogenous A II injection tests compared with after therapy response and that of controls. On the other hand, there was no significant difference in adrenal response to postural change or to exogenous A II between AN patients after therapy and controls. In conclusion, increased A II sensitivity caused by chronic sodium deficiency in AN patients normalized over time as the patients recovered. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1471819/
Abstract: Levels of airborne dust have been measured in the breathing zone of five warehouse packers in a carbon black manufacturing plant on consecutive days over 1 week. Post-shift urine samples were collected on individuals over the week and the concentration of the pyrene metabolite 1-hydroxypyrene have been measured. A questionnaire was used to assess the likelihood of potential confounding factors, such as direct exposure to feedstock oil, as well as smoking and diet. The arithmetic mean both of airborne dust and of excreted 1-hydroxypyrene for each individual have been correlated (a) with the constraint that the regression line pass through the origin, and (b) without this constraint. The slope of the regression through the origin was significant and that of the second regression (not through the origin) was not. The statistical test to determine whether excretion on days after Monday was higher than that on Monday itself proved highly significant. The results suggest that 1-hydroxypyrene may be a useful indicator of exposure to the PNAs adsorbed onto carbon black. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1471563/
Abstract: Female athletes have been identified as a potential risk group for the development of eating disorders. Although adolescents in general are particularly vulnerable to the onset of eating disorders, little research has examined the problem among high school female athletes. The present study explored this population by comparing female athletes and nonathletes in terms of (a) behavioral and psychological traits associated with eating disorders and (b) use of pathogenic weight control techniques (laxatives, vomiting, fasting, and diet aids). Sport-by-sport comparisons were also investigated to determine if athletes in specific sports were more at risk. Moreover, in an attempt to link athletic participation and eating disordered behavior, the gender-role orientation of athletes was examined. Results indicated that (a) athletes were more likely than nonathletes to possess certain behavioral and psychological correlates of eating disorders, (b) there were few differences among the various sport teams, and (c) gender-role orientation was generally not a critical variable. Although group comparisons yielded limited significant differences, athletes nevertheless reported traits associated with eating disorders as well as use of pathogenic weight control techniques. The unique contributions of the sport context and coaching practices exacerbating disordered eating are discussed. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1471762/
Abstract: Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) was used to study in vivo the brains of 49 patients with chronic alcoholism, 3 to 4 weeks post-withdrawal, and 43 normal healthy controls, all right-handed male veterans between the ages of 23 and 70 years. MRI scans were analyzed using a semi-automated procedure, which allowed the subcortical regions to be segmented into cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) and brain tissue and the cortical regions to be segmented into CSF, gray matter, and white matter. An age regression model was used to examine the effects of alcohol on brain structure, over and above that expected from the normal aging process. The alcoholics exhibited decreased tissue and increased CSF after correcting for aging. In the cortex, there was significant loss of both gray matter and white matter volume. In this sample of alcoholics, no particular cortical region was preferentially affected or spared. Furthermore, brain tissue volume loss increased with advanced age in the alcoholics. In this group of alcoholics there was no relationship between length of illness and age, i.e., the younger alcoholics had as heavy alcohol use histories as did the older alcoholics. Thus, the increased brain tissue loss with advanced age is interpreted as evidence for age-related increase in brain vulnerability to chronic alcohol abuse. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1471732/
Abstract: Tuberculosis continues to cause significant morbidity and mortality in developing nations. As a first step in defining the magnitude of the problem in Peru, we determined the prevalence of tuberculin sensitivity in an age-stratified, community-based population on the outskirts of Lima in December 1990. The overall prevalence of 10 mm or more induration in 368 individuals was 34%. When stratified by age, the prevalence was 12% in the 0-1-year-old group, 18% in the 2-4-year-old group, 24% in the 5-14-year-old group, 60% in the 15-24-year-old group, and 68% in the > or = 25-year-old group. Vaccination with bacillus Calmette-Guerin (87% of the study population) caused significant increases in weak (5-9 mm) reactions to purified protein derivative, but did not cause strong (10 mm or more) reactions. The prevalence of tuberculous infection in this population is higher than that previously reported in Peru and in most other high-risk populations. Unfortunately, the current political and economic situation in Peru makes it difficult to implement public health measures to prevent infection and progression of infection to disease. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1471841/
Abstract: A new, long-term venous access catheter was evaluated in clinical practice and the insertion time, complication rate and prospective follow-up recorded. Fifty novel polyurethane catheters (Cuff-Cath) were inserted in 48 patients, for cytotoxic chemotherapy in 36, long-term total parenteral nutrition in five and miscellaneous indications in seven. All catheters were inserted by a percutaneous technique under local anaesthesia. The mean insertion time was 18 min. There were three insertion complications; failure to cannulate, pneumothorax and malposition. Seven catheters required removal (sepsis in five, subclavian vein thrombosis in two) and one catheter fell out. Total catheter days to date has been 6607 (mean 132, range 18-831 days). Eleven catheters are still in use a mean of 154 days (range 38-490 days) after insertion. Furthermore, a new technique has been described which prevents inadvertent displacement. This new catheter combines the mechanical advantages of polyurethane, together with those of a Dacron cuff. Early results suggest that this catheter may be a useful alternative to silicone catheters of the Hickman/Broviac type for long-term central venous access. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1471836/
Abstract: In one surgical unit, 115 patients undergoing cholecystectomy were studied to compare patient recovery, subjective and objective pain experienced and complications after laparoscopic and open cholecystectomy. The data were collected prospectively where allocation to open or laparoscopic cholecystectomy was by consecutive attendance. Laparoscopic cholecystectomy was feasible in 90% of patients presenting with symptomatic gallstones. Compared with the open operation, laparoscopic cholecystectomy was safe with less peroperative and postoperative morbidity, was more cost-effective and was associated with faster patient recovery as documented by less postoperative pain, earlier return to diet, earlier full mobilisation and discharge home. Laparoscopic cholecystectomy is superior to open cholecystectomy and should be available to all patients requiring elective cholecystectomy. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1471858/
Abstract: Thiamin, riboflavin, vitamin B6, magnesium, iron and zinc status, assessed from blood samples, was studied during a 24-week fitness-type exercise program. Subjects in exercise (n = 21) and control (n = 18) groups were female university students, aged 18-33 years. Erythrocyte (E) transketolase and glutathione activation coefficient, serum magnesium, zinc and ferritin, blood hemoglobin concentration and mean corpuscular volume were similar in both groups throughout the entire study. E-aspartate aminotransferase activation coefficient (vitamin B6 status) increased (4%) in exercise and decreased (7%) in control groups (p = 0.04), respectively. E-magnesium was stable in exercise but decreased (4%) in control groups (p = 0.004%). E-zinc increased (9%) in exercise subjects but remained stable in controls (p < 0.0001). A marginally altered vitamin B6 status was the only negative change found in exercise subjects. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1471859/
Abstract: The intakes of selected food groups in former East and West Germany were compared, based on data from the dietary surveys of the MONICA project Erfurt 1987 and of the MONICA project Augsburg 1984/85. Three-day records from 132 middle-aged men from the city of Erfurt (response 73%) and 3-day records from 424 middle-aged men from the city of Augsburg (response 70%) could be included in the comparison. The differences in the consumption of animal products were rather small. The intake of bread and baked goods, potatoes and cooked vegetables was higher in Erfurt, whereas the intake of raw vegetables was lower. The most striking differences appeared in the consumption of fat. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1471888/
Abstract: In order to determine whether or not there was a relationship between disorders of growth in children suffering from asthma and either increased resting energy expenditure or inadequate energy intake, a group of 34 children suffering from perennial symptoms were studied. A control group matched with the asthmatic children for sex and fat free mass were similarly studied. The children kept seven day records of weighed food intake. Basal metabolic rate was measured on one occasion in the fasted state by means of indirect calorimetry using the ventilated hood technique. The asthmatic children kept a 28 day record of peak expiratory flow rates, asthma symptoms, and medication usage. The asthmatic children expended significantly more energy at rest than their matched controls in absolute terms (14%). There was no correlation between height or height SD score and any parameter of energy balance. The causes of these finding are as yet speculative. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1471885/
Abstract: Ultrasonographic, blinded assessment was made of the extent of hepatic steatosis in 55 children with severe malnutrition: undernutrition (n = 6), marasmus (n = 18), marasmickwashiorkor (n = 17), and kwashiorkor (n = 14). The children were examined on admission, in early recovery (considered as baseline), and again at discharge. Eleven healthy control children and eight of the previously malnourished children were studied as comparison groups. Both oedematous and non-oedematous malnourished children had significantly more steatosis than the comparison groups at each time. Children with oedematous malnutrition had significantly greater steatosis than non-oedematous children at admission. Half of the non-oedematous malnourished children had appreciable hepatic steatosis at both admission and at baseline. Hepatic fat was only slowly mobilised. The rate constant was 1.4 +/- 0.3%/day. One quarter of the children did not change steatosis grades during the period they were in hospital. There was no overall correlation between the extent of steatosis and liver size. Hepatic steatosis in childhood malnutrition is not confined to oedematous children: it is frequently present in marasmic and undernourished children. Its extent is not necessarily related to the degree of hepatomegaly and accumulated lipid is only slowly mobilised. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1471856/
Abstract: Some aspects of zinc nutritive status in patients suffering from anorexia nervosa were evaluated. Basic anthropometric measurements, Zn levels in serum, urine and hair as well as serum alkaline phosphatase (ALP) and lactate dehydrogenase (LDH; Zn-dependent enzymes) and delayed dermal hypersensitivity were tested both in patients and in control subjects. The patients showed higher Zn levels in serum (123%), hair (85%) and urine (215%) than controls, whereas ALP and LDH values were 38 and 21%, respectively, lower than those from the control group. Half of the patients showed hypoergy, and less than 50% of them were able to show a normal immune response. These results suggest that Zn-dependent functions may be impaired in anorexia nervosa as a consequence of Zn unavailability. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1482574/
Abstract: We propose using a class of community-level measures--environmental indicators--as part of the evaluation of community-based health-promotion programs. Community-level measures of health-related behavior can be divided into three conceptual categories. The first two categories comprise statistical aggregates (e.g., means, sums, percentages) of measurements made on individuals, distinguished by whether individual-level covariates are also available. Individual-disaggregated measures include covariates, such as a comprehensive survey of health-risk behavior, including demographic information; individual-aggregated measures, such as sales data, do not. Our main focus is on the third category, environmental indicators, derived from observations of the community environment. Environmental indicators measures aspects of the physical, legal, social, and economic environment in a community that reflect, and likely influence, the attitudes and behavior of individual community members. They also measure an important intermediate step in community-based health-promotion interventions, namely environmental factors that programs target to modify individual attitudes and behavior. We present examples of environmental indicators for tobacco use and diet. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1482575/
Abstract: We examined the interrelationships among 36 health behaviors for men and 38 for women in a telephone survey of a national sample of 3,025 adults. Wide variations existed in the frequency of respondents engaging in healthy practices, ranging from 9% to 96%. Men practiced an average of 17, and women 19, healthy behaviors. Correlations between health behaviors were weak, with an absolute value averaging r = .07, ranging from r = .00 to r = .71. Factor analysis revealed 10 underlying dimensions among the behaviors, which we interpreted for men as: (1) health care use, (2) exercise and recreation activity, (3) alcohol use, (4) smoking, (5) physical activity, (6) dental care, (7) nutrition, (8) sleep, (9) beverage use, and (10) breakfast. Women had the same 10 factors as men, except for a women's health screening factor instead of a beverage use factor. These findings suggest that engaging in one health behavior is not necessarily associated with practicing others, and that public health and individual counseling efforts to encourage healthy behaviors should be multifaceted and behavior-specific. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1482754/
Abstract: Subjects with chronic renal failure have a greatly increased risk of coronary heart disease and dyslipidemia. Relatively few studies have examined the relationship of chronic renal failure to lipoprotein (Lp)(a) concentrations, an important risk factor for coronary heart disease. Diabetic subjects have been reported to have both increased Lp(a) concentrations and an increased risk of renal failure, thereby possibly confounding the Lp(a)-renal failure association. The association between Lp(a) and chronic renal failure in 359 control subjects and 111 subjects with renal failure was examined. Lp(a) (in milligrams per deciliter) was elevated in subjects with chronic renal failure, regardless of ethnicity (Mexican Americans, 19.8 +/- 2.7 versus 14.1 +/- 1.3; P = 0.03; non-Hispanic white patients, 24.9 +/- 3.0 versus 16.3 +/- 1.2; P = 0.006;). These differences persisted after adjustment for diabetes and ethnicity (P < 0.001). The type of treatment for chronic renal failure (diet, hemodialysis, or peritoneal dialysis) did not have an effect on Lp(a) concentrations. Lp(a) levels were not correlated with the level of creatinine in subjects with chronic renal failure. Thus, the elevation of Lp(a) levels in renal failure must occur early in renal failure, or alternatively, elevated Lp(a) levels may promote progression to chronic renal failure. These results indicate that Lp(a) concentrations are increased in chronic renal failure and may increase the risk for coronary heart disease in these subjects. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1482712/
Abstract: Infectious diarrhoea has been recognised as a serious public health problem for Aboriginal Australians, particularly infants and young children, for more than two decades. These diseases are caused by bacterial, viral and parasitic infections which are spread mainly by the faecal-oral route and which must be interrupted if prevention is to be effective. This paper reviews published reports on this subject and interventions which have been used elsewhere to reduce the incidence of infectious diarrhoea. These reports have important implications for Aboriginal health but interventions and strategies to overcome this problem must recognise the unique circumstances of Aboriginal people in Australia. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1482720/
Abstract: Dietary goals designed to improve nutritional health and lower the risk of chronic disease have been drawn up in Australia. Compliance with quantified goals was assessed in a random sample of 91 residents of Nambour, a typical community in southeast Queensland. Compliance was highest for alcohol and cholesterol goals. About three-quarters of the sample complied with the goal of limiting alcohol intake to five per cent of energy intake, and over half complied with the goal to limit daily cholesterol intake to less than 300mg. Compliance was lower for total fat and fibre goals. About 40% of the sample complied with the goal of consuming less than 33% of energy as fat or the goal of consuming 30g or more fibre per day. Compliance was slightly better for women than for men. Only a small proportion of the sample complied with goals to increase total carbohydrate intake to 55% or more of energy, or to limit saturated fatty acid intake to 10% of energy. For each of the goals, some were far from complying. In general, compliance with goals was lowest for males under 40 and was also low for women under 40. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1482580/
Abstract: For three consecutive years, beginning in 1986, we evaluated cardiovascular disease (CVD) risk factors of medical students as part of the teaching program in a Preventive Cardiology Academic Award. Entering students in three consecutive classes were screened on the first day of orientation to medical school. The first year, we evaluated 108 students (71 men and 37 women), the second year, 99 students (75 men, 24 women), and the third year 108 students (67 men and 41 women). During the single four-hour period, we obtained data on personal and family history of CVD risk factors, type A behavior, knowledge of CVD, attitudes toward CVD prevention, measures of depression and anger, blood pressure, blood pressure reactivity, physical activity, and diet. Blood was drawn for lipid analysis. Height and weight were measured, and a physical fitness step test was administered. Pulmonary function was measured during the third year. We used a four-tiered approach to preventive cardiology education. During the assessment session, abnormalities, such as elevated blood pressure or abnormal pulse, were discussed with the student. In the second tier, the data were analyzed and returned to all students during teaching sessions, enabling them to compare their levels with the class and the national averages. For the third tier, students with high-risk values, defined as low-density lipoprotein cholesterol level > or = 150 mg/dL, a total cholesterol or triglyceride level > or = 200 mg/dL, or blood pressure > or = 140/90 mmHg, were seen by faculty physicians who suggested remedial interventions in separate sessions.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS) 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1482615/
Abstract: We treated 66 consecutive type IV comminuted femoral shaft fractures with static Grosse-Kempf interlocking nails and followed them up for at least 1 year (median 27 months). Although the effect of weight bearing was completely lost, 60 fractures healed primarily without dynamization. We conclude that weight bearing contributes only an auxiliary role in promoting fracture healing, and that the most decisive role is adequate mechanical stability with sufficient nutrition. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1482746/
Abstract: The significant growth in the continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis (CAPD) population and the recent interest in the quantitation of dialysis delivered have stimulated much work in the field of kinetic modeling, correlation between model parameters and clinical outcome, and comparison between the long-term benefits of hemodialysis and peritoneal dialysis. A critical assessment of the long-term results of CAPD therapy is made on the basis of clinical results and recent experience with kinetic models including urea and creatinine. The significant differences between the hemodialysis and CAPD techniques have generated hypotheses to allow comparison between the two groups using similar kinetic models. Although CAPD has proven beneficial in the initial treatment of large numbers of patients with ESRD, there is concern about the adequacy of CAPD as long-term therapy for many patients. Prospective, long-term studies applying solute kinetic modeling are necessary to establish the adequacy of CAPD. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1482747/
Abstract: Recent work to elucidate the cause of obesity-associated hypertension has focused on insulin resistance and hyperinsulinemia. A significant amount of epidemiologic and correlational evidence suggests a link between these factors and obesity-associated hypertension, and acute insulin infusion studies have revealed renal, neural, and cardiovascular effects of this hormone that, if maintained chronically, could cause hypertension. However, correlations and acute effects may not reliably predict a chronic cause-and-effect relationship, and the fundamental question of whether chronic increases in plasma insulin concentration per se can produce a sustained increase in arterial pressure has not been completely resolved. Recent studies designed to address this question directly have found no evidence of a hypertensive effect of insulin in normal dogs, or in dogs with a 70% reduction in kidney mass and given a high sodium intake. Chronic hyperinsulinemia also did not potentiate the pressor effects of angiotensin II or norepinephrine. In fact, hyperinsulinemia caused significant reductions in total peripheral vascular resistance in dogs and a decrease in arterial pressure. Furthermore, induction of insulin resistance in dogs made obese by being fed a high-fat diet eliminated the decrease in peripheral vascular resistance during chronic insulin infusion but did not uncover a pressor effect of hyperinsulinemia. In contrast, insulin infusion for up to 7 days produced a sustained increase in arterial pressure in rats. Although the mechanism for this pressor response is unknown, these data indicate either that there are major species differences in the chronic blood pressure response to insulin or that specific, presently unknown, conditions must exist in order for insulin to raise blood pressure. Also, it is not clear whether humans respond more like rats or dogs with respect to blood pressure changes during chronic hyperinsulinemia. However, it is apparent that obesity hypertension is probably much too complex to be ascribed to insulin resistance and hyperinsulinemia alone. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1482779/
Abstract: It is uncertain whether adequate preinfarction diabetes control would alter the clinical outcome in diabetic patients once myocardial infarction has occurred. This study attempts an evaluation. Diabetic patients admitted successively to the cardiac intensive care unit with their first acute myocardial infarction were enrolled and followed throughout hospitalization. Every fourth consecutive patient with infarction, but not diabetic, was assigned to a control group. All patients were kept in the cardiac care unit for at least 48 h and vital signs and cardiac arrhythmias were continuously monitored. Radionuclide ventriculography was done within 24 h of admission and again upon discharge. When feasible, patients with postinfarction angina underwent coronary balloon angioplasty. During a 1-year period, 49 diabetic patients were studied, while 18 comparable nondiabetic patients served as controls. Diabetes was considered adequately controlled in 16 patients with glycosylated hemoglobin (HbA1c) of 8.8 +/- 0.7%, whereas in 33 patients diabetes was uncontrolled (HbA1c 14 +/- 3%), p < 0.001. No difference was found in the extent of infarct size, occurrence of heart failure, arrhythmias, and mortality when comparing the adequately with the inadequately controlled diabetics during a hospitalization period of 11 days. In diabetics, no differences were found in the short-term clinical course after acute myocardial infarction, whether the diabetes was adequately controlled or not in the preinfarction period. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1482817/
Abstract: Objective:
        
      
      To review some of the factors that influence the cost of pharmaceuticals and the delivery of pharmaceutical care as well as some possible measures for decreasing these costs. Data synthesis:
        
      
      Clinical studies have been selected to illustrate factors that may add to the overall cost of pharmaceutical care. Conclusions:
        
      
      Because of the perceived problems resulting from the introduction of new, expensive pharmaceuticals, possible means of controlling the costs of individual products are discussed. In addition, recommendations for achieving cooperation between pharmaceutical manufacturers and pharmacy practitioners in demonstrating the cost-effectiveness of new products are provided. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1482868/
Abstract: Joe Daniels is a 41 year old, 76kg male, insulin-treated diabetic patient who was diagnosed as being diabetic in 1972, at the age of 22. Joe recently found that he was having hypoglycaemic symptoms. Using self-monitoring blood glucose equipment glycaemic levels below 3.0 mmol/l were recorded at least once a week while hyperglycaemic readings (> 16 mmol/l) were observed 2-3 times per week. Joe came into hospital to have his glycaemic control improved as doctors were concerned about the risks of him suffering a serious hypoglycaemic attack. Using some of the data collected by Joe while in hospital we will demonstrate how a computer model of glucose-insulin interaction in type I diabetes can be used interactively to teach diabetic patients about their diabetes and educate them to adjust their own insulin injections and diet. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1483036/
Abstract: Data on Cd sources in food are presented and the effects are discussed of the raised environmental level of Cd concentration in some foods. Information is also presented on normal dietary intakes of this element and how these intakes may be increased by environmental pollution or atypical dietary habits. With reference to the exposure risk, the FAO/WHO has established for adults a Provisional Tolerable Weekly Intake (PTWI) limit of 7 micrograms/kg B.W.. Therefore the evaluation of dietary Cd intake has become very important. The purpose of this work is the estimation of dietary intakes of Cd using data on the composition of an average Italian diet. Complete meals from a factory canteen were analyzed and calculations of weekly intake of Cd carried out. Mean dietary intake was 222 micrograms per week (range 137-326 micrograms per week) or 32 micrograms per day (range 19-46 micrograms per day), with the median intake being 198 micrograms per week or 28 micrograms per day. Analyses were performed by means of Zeeman Electrothermal Atomization Atomic Absorption Spectrometry (ETA-AAS). The results obtained, related to the average and representative food consumption of Italian people, show that the weekly intake is well within the PTWI, but the emission of Cd into the environment is continuing and attention must be paid to population groups at risk due to particular food habits. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1483141/
Abstract: The task of nurses is to diagnose and treat human responses to illness and the threats of illness. The challenge is in finding the correct diagnosis and selecting the appropriate treatment. To do this appropriately, nurses need to separate health and illness from life-style; to discover whether or not life-style changes are really called for in treating illness or threats of illness or if nurses are uncomfortable with life-styles that are different from their own and expect all people to have a life-style similar to theirs. To intervene appropriately, nurses need to know whether they are working to help others return to their life-style preference or are forcing patients to chose the nurses' life-style preference. The case of the obese and the search for the successful dieter exemplifies the health care system's need to have individuals follow an exercise and eating program to lead them to thinness (a cultural value) whether or not they value thinness. Are health professionals forcing patients to conform to the professionals' life-style rather than assisting them to a healthier state within their own? 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1483269/
Abstract: Seven compounds, which included some naturally occurring dietary substances, were tested for their inhibitory effects on growth and metabolism of human leukemic CEM-C1 and CEM-C7 cell lines. Among the active compounds the naturally occurring dietary constituents were found to be the most active. The strongest inhibitory effects were observed with 3',4',5,7-tetrahydroxy-flavone (luteolin) and 4,4'-dihydroxychalcone. 31P-NMR spectra of cells incubated for 24 h with 30 microM of either of these compounds show complete ATP depletion. Also glucose uptake by the cells as measured by 13C-NMR is completely inhibited by these compounds. These results may be relevant to the tumor suppressing activity of bioflavonoids and the role of these compounds in chemoprevention. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1483273/
Abstract: The use of an enteral peptide feed based on hydrolysed whey protein (Pepti Junior, Cow and Gate/Nutricia Ltd.) was evaluated in 17 patients with complex GIT intolerance. Nine post surgical neonates were weaned onto the feed either following a period of parenteral nutrition (8) or after demonstrating intolerance of both breast milk and a lactose-free soy based formula. Eight infants admitted to a gastroenterology ward with multiple protein intolerances were also studied. Patients were fed to their nutritional requirements with the milk containing/100 ml; 67 kcal (280 kJ), 2.0 g protein, 3.7 g fat (50% MCT, 50% vegetable oil) and 6.7 g carbohydrate (98% maltodextrins). Patients were maintained on the feed for 7-45 weeks (mean 21 weeks). Full nutritional support was possible with the new formula in all but 2 children who had jejunostomies; in these patients > 50% of nutritional requirement were supplied by the enteral feed. All patients gained weight (mean 0.16 kg/week) (SD 0.09). With the exception of subclinical selenium deficiency, no abnormalities of haematological, biochemical or vitamin states were observed. Post prandial plasma amino-acid concentrations were within acceptable limits and similar to those reported on standard whey based infant formulae. The feed appeared well tolerated in infants with GIT intolerances with no major complications in long term usage. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1483028/
Abstract: Pentachlorophenol (PCP) is ubiquitous in the Canadian environment, as a result of the large quantities used in the wood preservation and wood protection industries. In the past decade, agricultural and wood protection applications of PCP in Canada have been sharply curtailed. A multimedia approach was used to update estimates of PCP exposure of the members of the general population in Canada, based on currently available information. A detailed review of PCP concentrations reported in air, water, foods, household dust, and soil was performed. PCP intake estimates for infants, toddlers, school-age children, and adults in Canada were calculated. Estimates were made for people with average intakes of air, water, foods, household dust, and soil, as well as for recreational anglers and aboriginal subsistence fishermen, who were expected to have higher intakes. The current estimated intake by all of these populations is well below the Acceptable Daily Intake (ADI) of 6 micrograms/kg bw/day. The average members of the general population have an estimated intake via all routes of 0.05 micrograms/kg bw/day; most exposure is calculated to occur via food (dairy products, grains and cereals and meats) and indoor air. Recreational anglers are estimated to be exposed to only marginally more PCP per day (roughly 2%) than the general population. In contrast, aboriginal subsistence fisherman, because of their very high consumption of fish and fish products, experience the highest exposure to PCP through food; their estimated intake of PCP is almost twice that of the general population. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1483158/
Abstract: Four important health behaviours--dietary fat avoidance, regular exercise, smoking and alcohol consumption--were assessed by questionnaire, together with measures of risk awareness and beliefs about the importance of each behaviour for health, in comparable samples of young adults from eight countries: Belgium, England, Germany, Hungary, Ireland, Poland, Portugal and Spain. Results from 3223 men and 3930 women were analysed. Substantial differences in the prevalence of behaviours were identified, but no country consistently showed the most or least healthy profile across behaviours. Women tended to smoke and drink less than men and attempted to avoid dietary fat to a greater extent, while men exercised more than women. Ratings of the importance of behaviours for health were high, while risk awareness showed wide variations, with lower scores from samples in southern and eastern Europe. Across countries, few associations were observed between the prevalence of behaviour and either mean belief ratings or risk awareness. However, in comparisons of people who did and did not perform each behaviour, beliefs were consistently associated with practice. In multiple regression, beliefs about the importance of the behaviour for health independently accounted for 11.3 per cent of the variance in exercise, 18.9 per cent of the variance in smoking and 4.5 per cent of the variance in alcohol consumption. The association between beliefs and dietary fat avoidance was also substantial. In contrast, the relationships between risk awareness and behaviour were mixed. People who avoided dietary fat were more aware than others of the health risks of fat. But non-smokers were less aware than smokers of the risks of smoking, and people who drank regularly were more aware of the dangers of alcohol than were non-drinkers. The results are discussed in the context of the contribution of health psychology to European health promotion. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1483400/
Abstract: For years low sodium diets have been recommended in the treatment of Mnire's syndrome. Elevated levels of insulin play an important role in sodium retention in renal tubules. Insulin production is stimulated by high carbohydrate diets. Adrenaline, cortisone, and glucagon levels may be increased by stress or food or inhalant allergies, further elevating insulin levels. The end result of prolonged hyperinsulinemia includes vasoconstriction and eventually arterial smooth muscle hypertrophy. Individual susceptibility to Mnire's syndrome may occur as a result of inflammatory changes in the endolymphatic sac or cochlear aqueduct secondary to primary or latent viral infections, thus predisposing to fluid retention. Long term medical treatment of Mnire's should be directed towards preventing sodium retention through sodium restriction and carbohydrate management. Other factors including stress and allergy should also be considered. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1483034/
Abstract: The determination of arsenite, arsenate, dimethylarsenic acid (DMA) and monomethylarsonic acid (MMA) in urine has been used for assessing occupational exposure to inorganic arsenic because these species were thought to be unaffected by dietary arsenic. However, this investigation reports how the consumption of certain types of seafood can lead to an increase in the amount of DMA excreted and hence an elevation in the urinary arsenic speciation total. Urine samples collected from volunteers between 4-20 hours after the ingestion of moderate-sized portions of mackerel, herring, crab or tuna, showed mean increases in the arsenic speciation totals of between 1.8 and 6.9 times compared with the levels in samples collected before the seafood was consumed. These findings have important implications in devising a biological monitoring strategy for workers exposed to inorganic arsenic. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1483237/
Abstract: Objective:
        
      
      To compile an inclusive list of Canadian pharmaceutical products available in 1991 that contained sulfites. Data sources:
        
      
      Written and oral responses from 94 pharmaceutical companies selected from the 1989 Compendium of Pharmaceuticals and Specialties. Results:
        
      
      A list of sulfite-containing pharmaceutical products was compiled from data supplied by the 90 responding companies. Companies whose products contained no sulfites were separately identified. Conclusions:
        
      
      Sulfites are present in many pharmaceutical products and are one of many excipients and additives that have been reported to cause severe adverse reactions. The provided list should be a useful aid for health care practitioners when prescribing pharmaceutical products for sulfite-sensitive patients. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1483414/
Abstract: The relationship between dietary fat intake and fasting plasma lipid levels was assessed in 35 female and 19 male adolescents recruited from two local education authority schools in Norwich, UK. Dietary intakes were assessed using a 7-day weighed dietary record method, coupled with the collection of duplicate diets. Fat and energy intakes calculated using food composition tables were compared with values obtained by direct analysis of duplicate diets. Fasting plasma lipid levels (total, HDL and LDL cholesterol and triglycerides) were measured and compared with total dietary lipids and fatty acid intakes. The average proportion of energy consumed as fat was higher than is currently considered desirable but lower than previous studies have reported for adults. Mean serum total cholesterol values were 4.2 (SEM 0.1) mmol for females and 4.5 (SEM 0.2) mmol for males; this difference was not statistically significant. In male subjects the dietary fatty acid profiles were significantly correlated with several parameters of plasma lipid status which are thought to be risk factors for coronary heart disease, and in particular with the ratio of total:HDL cholesterol. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1483416/
Abstract: Plasma retinol and retinyl ester kinetics were determined following an oral bolus of vitamin A in normal women and in women suffering from anorexia nervosa. Circulating levels of vitamin A and alpha-tocopherol were lower in anorectics than in normals with alpha-tocopherol levels close to minimal adequate levels. This suggests the possibility of deficiencies of other dietary factors. Following an oral bolus, plasma retinol increased more in anorectics than in normals, but transport values were not changed. Retinyl ester levels increased sevenfold more in anorectics than normals with a parallel enhancement in transport. Retinyl esters in plasma of normals and anorectics were present mainly in low-density lipoprotein with lesser amounts in very-low-density and high-density lipoprotein, but only minor amounts were found in chylomicrons. These data were used to calculate a relative dose response and indicated that anorectics had higher values than normals. Anorectics appear to have a lower status of vitamins A and E than normals but no defect in vitamin A metabolism was observed. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1483419/
Abstract: Resting energy expenditure (REE), and body composition, as fat-free mass (FFM) and fat mass, were determined in seven obese adolescents before and after weight loss of a mean 13.5 kg on an approximately 800 kcal/d (3349 kJ), high protein reducing diet regimen. Ideal body weight decreased from 166% to 142% in 8 weeks. There were no significant changes in total body potassium (TBK), extracellular water (ECW), intracellular water (ICW) or total body water (TBW) with weight loss. The REE (kcal/d) fell from 2034 +/- 392 (8514 +/- 1641 kJ) to 1762 +/- 453 (7376 +/- 1896 kJ) with weight loss (P < 0.05). However, when the REE was expressed as kcal/body weight there was no difference between before and after weight loss, 21.4 +/- 2.8 (90 +/- 21 kJ) and 21.6 +/- 4.5 (90 +/- 19 kJ). Similarly, when REE was examined in relation to FFM (kcal/kg) before and after weight loss, there were also no significant differences: 34.6 +/- 5.1 (145 +/- 21 kJ) and 32.1 +/- 7.9 (134 +/- 33 kJ). 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1483415/
Abstract: Body density and body impedance at 15 selected frequencies ranging from 1 to 1350 kHz were determined in 13 subjects on four consecutive days of the week. Bioelectrical impedance at the same frequencies was also determined in 11 subjects on the same day of the week during four consecutive weeks. Day-to-day variability of body density and body impedance and week-to-week variability of body impedance were studied. Statistical analyses did not reveal significant day- or week-effects in variabilities. The mean within-person variation in body density between days was 0.0019 kg/l (CV 0.2%). Mean within-person variation in body impedance between days was 57 ohms (CV 8.7%) at 1 kHz. At 5, 50 and 100 kHz the within-person variation between days was 16 ohms (CV 2.4%), 12 ohms (CV 2.1%) and 11 ohms (CV 2.0%), respectively. Mean within-person variation between weeks was 44 ohms (CV 2.4%) at 1, 5, 50 and 100 kHz, respectively. Overall the within-subject variability in impedance at all frequencies was higher in females. The larger mean within-person variation in impedance at 1 kHz could only partly be explained by variation in body weight and may be a real error in the measurement. Electrodes with a larger surface area reduced the variability to values comparable with those at higher frequencies. The day-to-day variation in impedance at higher frequencies causes an error in calculated FFM, which is about two times larger compared to the estimated error in FFM by body density. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1483417/
Abstract: Nutritional status was assessed in a group of patients with Parkinson's disease. Weight loss since the onset of disease occurred in 52% of the patients and 22% had lost more than 12.8 kg. Although 67% of patients experienced eating difficulties of some kind, dietary intakes of protein and energy were not significantly lower than recommended intakes. Plasma levels of albumin (44.2 g/l vs 45.7 g/l), vitamin A (2.61 vs 2.94 mumol/l), vitamin E (22.0 vs 32.0 mumol/l), iron (15.3 vs 18.3 mumol/l) and zinc (14.2 vs 18.7 mumol/l) were significantly lower (P < 0.05) in the patients than in healthy controls. Levels of ferritin, total iron-binding capacity and copper were similar between groups. The potential significance of low levels of vitamin E and zinc are discussed in relation to oxidative stress in the pathogenesis of this disease. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1483418/
Abstract: Measurements of nutritionally relevant biochemical and endocrine variables were made on 60 apparently healthy children (group A) whose parents suffered from leprosy and who had been separated at the age of 4 years and brought up in preventoria. Most of the measurements were also made on a comparison group of healthy children from the same poor socio-economic class (group B). In both groups the serum concentrations of cholesterol and triglycerides were well below those found in Western populations. Almost all the children in both groups were anaemic, but serum iron and ferritin levels were satisfactory. Folate and vitamin B12 levels were measured in group A only and were low in a significant proportion. Deficiency of these water-soluble vitamins may be a cause of the anaemia. Low albumin levels were found in 40% of group A children, compared with 2% in group B. The concentrations of calcium and magnesium were lower and that of phosphate higher in group A than in B. In both groups one-third of the children had low levels of serum zinc. Fifteen per cent of group A children had biochemical evidence of vitamin A deficiency, but none were deficient in vitamin E. Levels of total T3 and total T4 were below the lower limit of normal in a substantial proportion of children in both groups. Concentrations of parathyroid hormone were increased in parallel with the low values for serum calcium. Radiological studies of ossification centres in 57 group A children showed delayed maturation in 11 cases. The relevance of these findings to previous studies of the children of lepers in India is discussed. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1492984/
Abstract: The purpose of the study was to examine self-dialysis patients' need for information at different stages of the dialytic treatment, to find out the most efficient method to give information and to examine the patient's idea of the best communicator. The data were collected by the theme interview of 30 patients performing self-dialysis. Content analysis was the method used in analysing the data and in the presentation of the results both qualitative and quantitative representations are used. The self-dialysis patients felt that they needed information on the cause of their basic disorder. Of the information given before the dialytic treatment they were most interested in the technical and nutritional aspects of the treatment. During the dialytic treatment, information was wanted on hygiene, as well as further information on the technical and nutritional aspects. Information on the post-transplantation treatment was found especially important. The patients wanted the information mainly to be told to them by the physician, only during treatment the information was wanted from the nurse. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1493129/
Abstract: The objective of the present study was to examine the influence of energy supplementation and its cessation thereafter on the basal metabolic rates (BMR) of chronically undernourished individuals. Seven apparently healthy males were supplemented daily with 3.35 MJ (15 g protein, 35 g fat, 105 g carbohydrate) for 12 weeks. The average gain in body-weight was 1.9 kg (body fat, 58%; fat-free mass (FFM), 42%). The rise in BMR exceeded that accounted for by the increases in FFM during the 12 weeks of supplementation and was attributed to increases in the amount and activity of the visceral tissue as well as to an added cost of lipogenesis. At 12 weeks after cessation of the supplement, body-weights and FFM had decreased to presupplementation levels. BMR at this stage were significantly lower than at the 12th week of supplementation, when expressed per kg FFM or when adjusted for FFM using an analysis of covariance. These results suggest an increase in the metabolic efficiency during this negative energy balance period. The study demonstrates that, in the chronically undernourished, the changes in BMR are reversible and, hence, physiologically important to the process of adaptation to low-energy intakes. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1493268/
Abstract: During the past 10 years, liver transplantation has developed into an established form of treatment. In 1991 alone, almost 450 liver transplants were performed in Germany with a mean 1-year survival of 70%. Consistent progress in the fields of organ preservation, surgical techniques, and prevention of disease recurrence has made a more than 90% 1-year survival rate achievable during the last 3 years in Berlin. Progress in organ preservation is based on the use of colloidal solutions, pharmacological improvement of microcirculation, and probably prevention of reperfusion injury by the use of calcium antagonists and free oxygen radical scavengers. Improvements in surgical techniques have led to a reduction in blood loss and vascular complications, and to a drastic reduction of biliary leaks and stenosis. The introduction of cyclosporin, FK-506, and monoclonal antibodies into immunosuppressive therapy has contributed to the improvement of results in a major way. Furthermore, progress in intensive care in the areas of fluid therapy and blood component substitution, respiratory care and prophylaxis of infection as well as postoperative nutrition has led to a reduction in early postoperative morbidity and mortality. Efficient prophylaxis of the recurrence of hepatitis-B-virus-related disease by using hepatitis B hyperimmunoglobulin after liver transplantation has prevented this lethal recurrence, which was previously frequent, in a large group of patients. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1493007/
Abstract: This study investigated the attitudes to breast feeding of women registered with 24 general practitioners in Nottingham. A total of 514 women were interviewed in the antenatal period and then followed up at six weeks and six months after the birth of their child. Seventy per cent of the women planned to breast feed their baby, 23% planned to bottle feed and 7% were undecided. Only 26 women changed their plans. Although 73% of the women interviewed began breast feeding, this had fallen to 49% by six weeks and 26% by six months. Logistic regression analysis showed that multiparae who had bottle fed or stopped breast feeding their previous child during the first six weeks were 5.15 times more likely to stop breast feeding in the first six weeks, than those who had breast fed their previous child for six weeks or more. Primiparae in social classes 3M, 4 or 5 or who were unemployed were 3.68 times more likely to stop than women in higher social classes, while those who said they had considered bottle feeding were 2.40 times more likely to stop. Most women gave an inadequate milk supply as a reason for stopping, but sore nipples were also a problem in the first six weeks. Of all the women who had started breast feeding 46% felt they did not have enough milk at some stage and despite the finding that 49% of those who sought advice from a health professional were advised to feed more often, 42% said they had been advised to give bottle feeds.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS) 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1493134/
Abstract: Thirty-eight male volunteers participated in a double-blind cross-over trial evaluating the effect of replacing the usual sources of saturated fat in the Dutch diet (animal fats and hydrogenated oils) by palm oil, which is virtually free of cholesterol and trans-fatty acids, on serum lipids, lipoproteins and apolipoproteins. Maximum (about 70%) replacement had no significant effect on serum total cholesterol or most lipoprotein fractions, but resulted in an 11% increase in serum high-density-lipoprotein (HDL)2-cholesterol relative to the control (P2 = 0.01). The palm-oil diet also caused an 8% decrease in low-density-lipoprotein (LDL):HDL2 + HDL3-cholesterol ratio (P2 = 0.02) as well as a 9% decrease in triacylglycerols in the low-density-lipoprotein fractions (P2 = 0.01). Palm oil consumption resulted in a 4% increase in serum apolipoprotein AI (P2 = 0.008) and a 4% decrease in apolipoprotein B (P2 = 0.01) relative to the control diet; the B:AI apolipoprotein ratio was decreased by 8% (P2 < 0.0001). These results were not significantly affected by the different lipoprotein E phenotypes of the volunteers. Although the observed differences were relatively modest, the present study, nonetheless, indicates that dietary palm oil, when replacing a major part of the normal fat content in a Dutch diet, may slightly reduce the lipoprotein- and apolipoprotein-associated cardiovascular risk profiles. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1493006/
Abstract: The aims of this study were to investigate the prevalence of anorexia nervosa, bulimia nervosa and partial syndromes in women general practice attenders to establish the relative proportions of 'conspicuous' and 'hidden' morbidity. A consecutive series of 540 women patients aged 16-35 years attending their family doctor were screened using a specially devised questionnaire, the weight and dietary practices survey. A total of 115 patients were selected for further assessment and of these 101 patients were interviewed using a standardized diagnostic interview for DSM III-R eating disorders. The prevalence of anorexia nervosa was 0.2% (one case), of bulimia nervosa 1.5% (eight cases) and of partial syndrome bulimia nervosa 5.4% (29 cases). Half of the cases of bulimia nervosa had not been identified by the general practitioner and two of these patients had been referred to specialists for treatment of secondary complications of the eating disorder. Hidden cases of bulimia nervosa or partial syndromes are relatively common in general practice. Certain key questions could be used by general practitioners in order to identify women with eating disorders. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1493126/
Abstract: A computational method for constructing individually acceptable diets by modifying a chosen diet to meet nutritional requirements is described. The effects on food quantities of imposing different nutrient requirements on a sample diet are demonstrated and techniques which can ensure the acceptability to the individual of the modified diet are described. The starting point in the calculation is the person's current dietary intake. This is modified using linear programming methods which make the smallest changes to the food quantities to meet specific targets. Sequential modification can be used to identify changes that are acceptable to the individual. The computer program has been developed in collaboration with practising dietitians and is in use in some leading UK hospitals. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1493125/
Abstract: There is little age-specific information on changes in dietary intake over time in this country, yet this is valuable in assessing the effectiveness of health education programmes particularly in vulnerable groups such as adolescents. In 1990, 379 children aged 12 years completed two 3 d dietary records. They were interviewed by one dietitian on the day after completion of each diary to verify and enlarge on the information provided and, with the aid of food models, obtain a quantitative record of food intake. Nutrient intake was calculated using computerized food tables. These children attended the same seven Middle schools in Northumberland as 405 children of the same age who recorded their diet using the same method, 10 years previously. Heights and weights were also recorded in both studies in the same manner. Comparing the nutrient intakes in 1990 with 1980, energy intake fell in the boys (to 8.6 MJ) but not in the girls (8.3 MJ). The contribution of fat to energy intake was unchanged at about 40% (about 90 g/d). Likewise, intake of sugars was unchanged at about 22% of energy (about 118 g/d). Calcium intake remained the same in the girls (763 mg/d in 1990) but fell in the boys (786 mg/d in 1990). Iron, vitamin C and unavailable carbohydrate intakes increased in both sexes, and the nutrient density of the diet improved in all sex and social-class groups. However, a social trend evident in 1980 still existed in 1990 with low social groups having the poorest-quality diet. It is concluded that there is little evidence of substantial progress towards improving the diet of adolescents in this country. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1493369/
Abstract: Endemic cretinism is still present in an endemic goiter area of the central Apennines (Montefeltro) (goiter prevalence 55%; mean urinary iodine level 39 micrograms/g creatinine). Clinical and biochemical features of patients with myxedematous, neurologic, and mixed cretinism were studied. Also, in this area, as in most other, neurologic cretinism is more prevalent than myxedematous and mixed forms. The hormonal profiles of the three types of cretinism were clearly different. Nevertheless, all myxedematous cretins had some neurologic disorders (hyperreflexia, increased muscle tone, disorder of gait, Babinski sign, hypoacusia) that were similar to those present in neurologic cretins. These findings suggest that neurologic damage is very similar in all forms of endemic cretinism, reflecting a diffuse insult to the developing fetal nervous system. Furthermore, these data support the hypothesis that the primary pathophysiologic event in the different types of endemic cretinism is represented by maternal and fetal hypothyroidism, while differences may be explained by the extent and duration of postnatal hypothyroidism. All the cretins were over 35 of age, suggesting a severe iodine deficiency in the past decades, and a progressive improvement of nutritional status resulted in "silent iodine prophylaxis." However, recent studies have revealed the persistence of a moderate iodine deficiency, a high prevalence of neurologic hypoacusia, and reduction of mental performance in normal schoolchildren of this area. These findings constitute strong evidence in favor of adequate iodine prophylaxis. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1433570/
Abstract: Our previous studies have indicated that the protein-bound polysaccharide Kreha (PSK) enhances the cytotoxic activity of peripheral blood lymphocytes (PBL) against the T24 human urinary bladder tumor cell line in patients with bladder tumor. Since PSK consists of a mixture of various kinds of protein-bound polysaccharides, the present study was designed to examine which subfractions of PSK mediated the enhancement of cytotoxicity. When PSK was separated according to size, treatment of PBL with the 50 kilodalton (kd) or less fraction killed T24 cells more efficiently than unfractionated PSK-treated PBL. The higher molecular weight fractions did not enhance killing above the control level. PSK was fractionated on a diethylaminoethyl (DEAE)-cellulose column to obtain a protein rich fraction that absorbed onto the column and a polysaccharide rich fraction that did not. PBL treated with the polysaccharide rich fraction were able to kill T24 cells more effectively than unfractionated PSK-treated PBL. The protein rich fraction had no effect on the killing. Further fractionation of the polysaccharide rich fraction was performed by differential precipitation with ammonium sulfate. PBL treated with the precipitated fraction at 70-80% saturation (PSK Fraction D) enhanced cytotoxicity equal to that of the polysaccharide rich fraction. Treatment of PBL with the other fractions did not augment the cytotoxicity. These enhancement by PSK fractions were observed in healthy donors and also in patients with bladder tumor. An increase of the proliferative response of PBL to PSK Fraction D as well as unfractionated PSK was observed. Treatment of PBL with PSK Fraction D had no effect on the proportion of PBL binding to T24 cells, thus suggesting a post-binding effect. The structure of PSK Fraction D as inferred from the results of methylation analysis was mainly an alpha-glucan. These results demonstrate that PSK mediated enhancement of cytotoxicity and proliferation of PBL may be largely due to an alpha-glucan of less than 50 kd. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1433659/
Abstract: One hundred thirty-nine consecutive patients (average age 70.1 years) who were able to walk with a swollen leg were seen at the clinic where diagnosis of acute deep vein thrombosis (DVT) extending to the pelvis was confirmed by injecting microspheres labeled with technetium 99m into the dorsal foot vein (radionuclide venography). Thirty-nine (28%) of these patients had malignant disease. Perfusion lung scans performed immediately after radionuclide venography were supplemented by inhalation scans (99mTc-labeled diethylenetriamine pentaacetic acid aerosol) in case of perfusion defects. During scintigraphy patterns highly indicative of pulmonary embolism (PE) were found in 80 patients (58%), but only 11 (7.9%) had minor clinical symptoms. All patients were admitted to the ward, were given standard heparin subcutaneously (35,000 to 40,000 units/24 hr) and firm bandages, and were encouraged to walk. After 11 days pulmonary scintigraphy was repeated and revealed no change in 55 of 59 patients without PE and in 40 of 80 patients with PE. Thirty-three patients (23.7%) showed regression of perfusion defects. New PE developed in 11 patients (7.9%, four without and seven with previous PE). Autopsy revealed that one 80-year-old patient with prostatic carcinoma had died of massive PE. When comparing this frequency of newly developed PE during ambulation with the occurrence of PE after bed rest, according to the literature, it is no more dangerous for a mobile patient with proximal DVT to walk wearing a firm bandage than it is for the patient to be in bed. Therefore we recommend treating mobile patients with DVT by use of anticoagulation and firm compression bandages and without immobilization. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1433761/
Abstract: Objective:
        
      
      To compare the cognitive development in Taiwanese children who had been exposed prenatally to high levels of heat-degraded polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) with control children who were exposed to background levels. The disorder was called Yu-Cheng, "oil disease," in Taiwan. Design:
        
      
      Matched-pair cohort study. Setting:
        
      
      Communities in central Taiwan in which there had been a cooking-oil contamination and mass poisoning by heat-degraded PCBs in 1978 through 1979. Participants:
        
      
      One hundred eighteen children born between June 1978 and March 1985 during or after their mothers' consumption of contaminated rice oil; 118 children matched for age, sex, neighborhood, maternal age, and parental education and occupational class; and 15 older siblings of exposed children, born before the poisoning. Main outcome measures:
        
      
      Cognitive development measured from 1985 through 1990 using the Chinese versions of the Stanford-Binet test and the Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Children, Revised, Results:
        
      
      The exposed children scored approximately 5 points lower on the Stanford-Binet test at the ages of 4 and 5 years and approximately 5 points lower on the Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Children, Revised, at the ages of 6 and 7 years. Children born up to 6 years after their mothers' exposure were as affected as children born within a year or two after exposure when examined at 6 and 7 years of age. Older siblings resembled the control children. Conclusion:
        
      
      Children prenatally exposed to heat-degraded PCBs had poorer cognitive development than their matched controls. The effect persisted in the children up to the age of 7 years, and children born long after the exposure were still affected. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1433760/
Abstract: Objective:
        
      
      To determine the source of an international outbreak of shigellosis associated with consumption of food served by a Minnesota-based airline. Design:
        
      
      Cohort studies of players and staff of a Minnesota-based professional football team and passengers on flights with a confirmed case of outbreak-associated Shigella sonnei infection. Setting:
        
      
      Community- and industry-based studies conducted from October through November 1988. Participants:
        
      
      Sixty-five football team players and staff, and 725 airline passengers in the cohort studies. Results:
        
      
      Twenty-one (32%) of 65 football players and staff developed shigellosis that was associated with consumption of cold sandwiches prepared at the airline flight kitchen (relative risk [RR], 17.1; 95% confidence interval [Cl], 2.4 to 120; P < .001). Confirmed or probable shigellosis was identified among 240 passengers on 219 flights to 24 states, the District of Columbia, and four countries between September 14 and October 13. An outbreak-associated strain of S sonnei was isolated from football players and staff, airline passengers, and flight attendants. Thirty (4.1%) of 725 passengers on 13 flights with confirmed cases had confirmed or probable shigellosis. Illness was associated with consumption of cold food items served on the flights and prepared by hand at the airline flight kitchen (RR, 5.7; 95% Cl, 1.4 to 23.5; P < .01). Conclusions:
        
      
      This international outbreak of shigellosis was identified only because of the occurrence of an index outbreak involving a professional football team. Prevention of Shigella transmission in mass catering establishments may require reduction of hand contact in the preparation of cold food items or elimination of these items from menus. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1433764/
Abstract: Objective:
        
      
      To determine the incidence of recognized outbreaks of Campylobacter enteritis associated with drinking raw milk during youth activities. Design:
        
      
      Retrospective survey of 51 state and territorial health departments. Setting:
        
      
      The 50 United States and the Territory of Puerto Rico. Populations:
        
      
      Persons in preschool through college. Measurement:
        
      
      Information was obtained for all Campylobacter outbreaks associated with consumption of raw milk during youth activities from 1981 through 1990 that were investigated by state and territorial health departments. Results:
        
      
      Twenty outbreaks were identified in 11 states. Four hundred fifty-eight outbreak-associated cases occurred among 1013 persons who drank raw milk, with an overall attack rate of 45%. At least one outbreak was reported for each year of the 10-year period. Fourteen outbreaks (70%) occurred among children in kindergarten through third grade, compared with one outbreak (5%) among fourth through sixth graders. The remaining five outbreaks (25%) occurred in mixed groups of children and teenagers. Only nine (60%) of 15 outbreaks identified from 1981 through 1988 were reported to the Campylobacter national surveillance system maintained by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Conclusion:
        
      
      Drinking raw milk on school field trips or other youth activities continues despite the occurrence of multiple Campylobacter outbreaks documented from this practice. Such illnesses can be prevented by educating dairy farmers and officials of schools and youth organizations about the hazards of drinking raw milk. Public health organizations need to develop and implement such educational programs. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1433759/
Abstract: Objective:
        
      
      To determine the source of an outbreak of Salmonella javiana and Salmonella oranienburg infections. Design:
        
      
      Laboratory-based statewide surveillance for Salmonella infections and two separate case-control studies. Setting:
        
      
      Community- and industry-based studies conducted from May through October 1989. Participants:
        
      
      Thirty-one culture-confirmed outbreak-associated cases of S javiana infection and 60 community controls matched for telephone prefix, gender, and age in case-control study I; 50 cases, 100 community controls, and 64 family member controls in case-control study II. Results:
        
      
      One hundred thirty-six culture-confirmed cases of S javiana infection and 11 cases of S oranienburg infection were associated with the outbreak in Minnesota. Outbreak-associated cases were also identified in Wisconsin (15 cases), and in Michigan and New York (one case each). Cases were more likely than controls to have consumed mozzarella cheese manufactured at a single cheese plant (plant X) or cheese that had been shredded at processing plants that also shredded cheese manufactured at plant X (odds ratio [OR], 7.2; 95% confidence interval [CI], 1.7 to 23.2; P < .01). The outbreak-associated strains of both serovars were isolated from two unopened 16-oz (0.45-kg) blocks of mozzarella cheese produced at plant X. The most probable numbers of Salmonella organisms in these samples were 0.36/100 g and 4.3/100 g. Conclusions:
        
      
      The potential for bacterial pathogen contamination of cheese during manufacture and processing has important epidemiologic implications, particularly because cheese consumption has recently increased in the United States. Low-level contamination of a nationally distributed food product can cause geographically dispersed foodborne outbreaks that may be difficult to detect. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1433782/
Abstract: We studied 21 patients with Guillain-Barr syndrome who demonstrated multiple nutritional risk factors upon admission to an intensive care unit: ventilator dependence (71.4%), adynamic ileus (23.8%), significant weight loss in the 2 weeks before admission (53.0%), antecedent viral illness with gastrointestinal sequelae (43.0%), cranial nerve deficits impairing oral intake and gastrointestinal motility (60%), and depressed serum transferrin (85.7%). Patients are hypermetabolic and hypercatabolic because of endocrine, infectious, and inflammatory components of the disease. High-energy (40 to 45 nonprotein kcal/kg), high-protein (2.0 to 2.5 g/kg) nutrition support appears to exert a favorable effect on visceral protein repletion, nitrogen balance, and resistance to pulmonary infection. Immediate attainment of positive energy balance in these hypermetabolic patients, ideally assessed by indirect calorimetry and followed by high-energy, high-protein feedings, may promote positive nitrogen balance early and attenuate muscle wasting in Guillain-Barr syndrome. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1433780/
Abstract: One hundred and forty silicone catheters were inserted in 127 patients for long-term intravenous access with a cumulative follow-up time of 21,125 catheter-days (58 patient-years). Fifty-six patients had acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS); 44 were not AIDS patients and were receiving ambulatory home parenteral nutrition, whereas the remaining 27 did not have AIDS and were receiving home antibiotic therapy. Patients had a mean of 1.1 catheters inserted, and the rate of Hickman catheter-related sepsis was 0.18 per 100 catheter days or 0.6 septic episodes per patient year of treatment. Catheter-related sepsis was higher in AIDS patients (p < .01) and in patients receiving parenteral nutrition (p < .05) compared with those receiving antibiotic therapy. Prior catheter infection and AIDS were the most significant predictors of catheter infection (p < .01). Staphylococcus aureus was the most commonly isolated pathogen (61%) in AIDS patients. Fever (p < .001) and relative leukocytosis (p < .02) were the most common signs of infection. Only 14 infected catheters (37.8%) were salvaged by antibiotic therapy after the initial infection episode, and 6 of these catheters (42.9%) had recurrent multiple infections. In addition, inflammatory bowel disease was found to be a risk factor for venous thrombosis (p = .018). We conclude that because immunocompromised patients have a high risk of infection, catheter-related sepsis in these patients should be treated by catheter removal and antibiotics. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1433781/
Abstract: Pediatric amino acid products contain lower concentrations of methionine and require the addition of L-cysteine HCl just before infusion. Reports of a potential interaction between cysteine and copper, a routine addition to parenteral nutrition solutions, have appeared in the literature. This study serially evaluated cysteine/cystine and copper concentrations pre- and postfilter (0.22 microns) in two parenteral nutrition formulations prescribed for normal fluid (NF) or fluid-restricted (FR) pediatric patients. Solutions were infused via a peristaltic pump in vitro for 24 hours. Pre- and postfilter samples were obtained immediately after the infusion began (time 0) and at 1, 2, 3, 4, 8, 12, 16, 20, and 24 hours during the infusion. At 24 hours pre- and postfilter, cysteine/cystine were quantitated at 87.3% and 85% of the initial concentrations, respectively, for the NF solution and 92% and 91.5% for the FR solution. Pre- and postfilter copper was quantitated at 87.5% and 92.5% of the initial concentrations, respectively, for the NF solution and 88.2% and 95.2% for the FR solution. The 24 hour area under the curve for cysteine/cystine was 88.4% for the NF solution and 96.4% for the FR solution. For copper, the area under the curve for the NF solution was 99% and 96.7% for the FR solution. There was no visual evidence of incompatibility or precipitation. We conclude that copper-containing parenteral nutrition solutions with L-cysteine HCl added immediately before infusion are relatively stable after compounding and infusion over 24 hours. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1433775/
Abstract: When given as a dietary supplement, arginine enhances lymphocyte mitogenesis and improves nitrogen balance. The purpose of this study was to evaluate arginine's ability to mediate these same effects when given as the sole nitrogen source with minimum additional calories. Thirty patients were randomized to receive 20 g/day arginine hydrochloride or a mixed amino acid solution (Travasol) by intravenous infusion for 7 days after abdominal operations. Mean patient age, body weight, gender ratios, and preoperative degree of weight loss were similar between groups. Mean plasma arginine and ornithine levels rose to 228 +/- 50 mumol/L and 191 +/- 76 mumol/L in the arginine group during infusion. Mean nitrogen balance was -8.8 g/day and -9.2 g/day in the arginine and Travasol groups, respectively. Mean lymphocyte stimulation indices to concanavalin A and phytohemagglutinin fell on postoperative day 1 in both groups. No significant differences in patterns of lymphocyte mitogenesis changes were noted between groups. The mean total number of circulating T cells increased in the arginine group at postoperative day 7. Thus, parenteral arginine infusion in postoperative patients provided comparable nitrogen balance to a balanced amino acid solution but did not increase peripheral blood lymphocyte mitogenesis. When arginine is given parenterally as the sole nitrogen source with minimal additional calories to postoperative patients, no enhancement of mitogen-stimulated lymphocyte proliferation could be demonstrated. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1433774/
Abstract: The incidence of gastroesophageal reflux (GER) in critically ill patients as well as the effect of a nasogastric tube (NGT) and body position as risk factors for GER were determined. Seventy patients with orotracheal intubation receiving enteral nutrition through a NGT for more than 48 hours were prospectively studied with two randomly assigned body positions: supine or semirecumbent. Detection of GER was achieved by scintigraphy after labeling gastric contents with 500 microCi of technetium-99m sulfur colloid administered through the NGT. In 50 patients scintigraphy was performed after subjects had remained in the randomized position for 2 hours with the NGT pinched. Twenty additional patients were studied after the NGT had been removed. In 50 patients with NGT, GER was present in 74% (37 of 50) and was higher in the supine position (81%, 21 of 26) than in the semirecumbent position (67%, 16 of 24), but this difference was not statistically significant (p = .26). In 20 patients without NGT, the incidence of GER was 35% (7 of 20) and it was also higher in the supine (50%, 6 of 12) than in the semirecumbent position (12%, 1 of 8, p = .16). There was a statistically significant difference between GER in patients with and without NGT (74% vs 35%, p = .0002). These data show that there is a high incidence of GER in patients with orotracheal intubation and NGT. The presence of a NGT is a risk factor for GER. Semirecumbency does not prevent GER, but there is less incidence than in the supine position. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1433773/
Abstract: Glutathione (GSH) is a potent endogenous antioxidant that protects major organs from oxidant injury. However, present nutrition regimens may inadequately support tissue stores of this tripeptide during critical illness. To determine whether GSH reserves can be enhanced in vivo with intravenous (IV) supplements, rats underwent central venous catheterization, were given chow and water ad libitum during a 2-day recovery period, and were then randomized to receive one of three treatments as an IV bolus: (1) dextrose, (2) glutathione (GSH), or (3) glutathione monoethyl ester. GSH monoethyl ester is transported into cells more easily than is GSH. Tissue and plasma samples were analyzed for GSH at 2 and 4 hours after drug administration. Liver, renal, and ileal mucosal GSH were significantly increased in the GSH-monoethyl ester rats compared with dextrose-treated animals. In addition, plasma GSH was dramatically increased after monoester injection. In contrast, GSH administration depressed liver GSH stores and did not significantly affect GSH concentration in the other organs analyzed. Plasma GSH concentration was elevated 2 hours after GSH administration. We conclude that: (1) the monoethyl ester of glutathione can be used in vivo to enhance tissue and plasma GSH concentration and (2) IV GSH administration does not significantly increase tissue GSH levels and may paradoxically depress hepatic GSH in normal rats. Because the malnourished and critically ill are likely to have depleted GSH stores, nutrition strategies that include the provision of GSH monoester may lend additional support to those organs that are at risk for injury from oxygen free radicals during catabolic states. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1433784/
Abstract: Rapid advances in molecular biology have yielded important new techniques for understanding the cellular mechanisms of normal homeostasis and disease. In particular, molecular laboratory methodologies have become important investigative tools for nutritional studies. Detection techniques for specific DNAs, RNAs, and proteins allow direct examination of cellular regulation of protein expression in health and illness. Construction of transgeneic models by recent techniques of inserting foreign genes into experimental animals has provided novel models for studies of cellular metabolism. In addition, molecular biology has had impact on clinical nutrition and therapy. Molecular techniques not only allow for early diagnosis of many inborn genetic errors of metabolism, recombinant technology has also provided for large-scale production of proteins and hormones of potential therapeutic value. The possibility for direct gene therapies is also nearing reality. Hence, understanding the language of molecular biology and the recent developments in this field is not only of research interest, but is also of clinical relevance. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1433771/
Abstract: This study evaluated the safety of triple vs single-lumen catheters in intravenous nutrition. Patients who were judged likely to benefit from a triple-lumen catheter were randomized to receive either a single-lumen catheter, with additional peripheral or central venous access as needed, or a triple-lumen catheter. All patients were at increased risk of catheter-related infection because of one or more of the following conditions: > 60 years of age, breakdown of skin integrity, severe underlying illness, diagnosis of acute pancreatitis, recent head or neck surgery, or presence of a preexisting infection. Patients were excluded who had neutropenia, were immunosuppressed, had body burns > 40%, or had contaminated wounds in the subclavicular area. Of 204 patients entered between June 1989 and November 1991, 177 completed the required > or = 7 days of therapy. Seventy-eight of these patients were randomized to a single-lumen catheter and 99 to a triple-lumen catheter. Catheters were inserted and maintained by the Nutrition Support Team. Dressings were monitored daily and changed weekly using a bio-occlusive dressing. When parameters were met for a possible septic episode, simultaneous peripheral and central catheter blood cultures were obtained using the Isolator method. Catheter-related sepsis was considered present if the colony count from a central catheter lumen was > or = 5 times that of the peripheral blood. The incidence of catheter-related sepsis for single-lumen catheters was 2.6% (2 of 78) compared with 13.1% for triple-lumen catheters (13 of 99) (p < .01). No correlation was found with the number of insertion attempts, catheter days, or patient's age.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS) 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1433778/
Abstract: The effect of meal ingestion (9 kcal/kg of body weight, 53% carbohydrate, 30% fat, 17% protein, as a liquid formula) on energy expenditure and oxidation rate of carbohydrate, fat, and protein was assessed by indirect calorimetry and urinary nitrogen excretion before and for 3 hours after eating in stable cirrhotic patients and control subjects of comparable age. Postprandial modifications of substrate and hormone levels were also studied. Compared with basal values, the mean +/- SD resting energy expenditure during the first 3 hours after meal ingestion increased similarly in cirrhotic patients (+0.32 +/- 0.12 kcal/min) and control subjects (+0.31 +/- 0.08 kcal/min). Dietary induced thermogenesis was equivalent to 10% of the energy contained in the meal in both groups. Before eating, the carbohydrate oxidation rate was lower and fat oxidation higher in cirrhotic patients than in the control subjects. After eating, glucose oxidation increased whereas fat and protein oxidation rates were reduced in both groups. As a consequence the amount of fat oxidized in the postprandial period remained higher in cirrhotic patients than in the control subjects. After meal ingestion, serum glucose levels increased whereas plasma free fatty acid and glycerol levels decreased in both groups. The substrates, however, remained significantly higher in cirrhotic patients than in control subjects, despite the higher postprandial insulin increment in the patients group, thus suggesting the presence of insulin resistance. Because the postprandial glucose oxidation rate was normal, the low insulin-mediated glucose uptake observed in cirrhotic patients seems to reflect a defect in the nonoxidative disposal of the glucose ingested.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS) 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1442748/
Abstract: A quantitative history of current dietary intake based on 83 food items was administered by interview to a representative sample of 4,809 subjects in Hawaii in 1977-1979. In 1983-1987, this history was readministered to the 131 original respondents who had subsequently developed cancer, as well as 413 randomly selected subjects who remained cancer free. A surrogate was interviewed when the original subject was unavailable. The repeat interview elicited information about diet at the time of the original interview. The authors found that recall values for macronutrients were consistently higher than original levels for both cases and noncases, which may be due in part to a modification in the administration of the repeat questionnaire. Although there were no marked differences overall between cases and noncases in the ability to recall past diet, differences between the two groups were seen in certain subsets of the sample. In the subgroup with the longest recall interval (8-10 years), cases were not able to recall their diets as well as noncases. Also, the difference between original and recall values was larger for cases with colorectal cancer and all cases diagnosed with distant stage disease, compared with noncases. This was not true for cases of breast and prostate cancer and those with localized or regional disease. The following variables were found to have no significant effect on recall for cases or noncases: sex, age, education, and type of respondent (surrogate or subject). Of the five major ethnic groups included in the study, Japanese had the best recall of their past diets, while respondents reporting a diet change between the interviews had poorer recall than did those who reported no change. These results suggest that differential misclassification in dietary case-control studies may pose a significant problem in certain instances, but that these studies can yield meaningful results with certain constraints on the study population. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1442717/
Abstract: Ten subjects from the Forsyth County, North Carolina, and Washington County, Maryland, field centers in the Atherosclerosis Risk in Communities Study had two fat tolerance tests within a 10-day period from September 1988 to February 1989 to determine the reproducibility of markers for postprandial lipemia. No significant differences between visits were found in fasting mean plasma lipids, lipoproteins, and apolipoproteins. Postprandial triglycerides and retinyl palmitate were measured at 3.5 and 9.0 hours after the test meal in whole plasma. There were no significant differences in the mean levels of these analytes between visits. The correlation of triglycerides between repeat visits at 9.0 hours (r = 0.87) was stronger than in fasting samples (r = 0.67) or at 3.5 hours (r = 0.69). The mean plasma retinyl palmitate level at 3.5 hours was 15% higher than at the 9.0-hour level. The correlation of repeat measures of retinyl palmitate at 9.0 hours (r = 0.94) was much stronger than at 3.5 hours (r = 0.79). In conclusion, estimates of reliability in postprandial measurements of 9.0-hour triglycerides and retinyl palmitate levels were as strong as fasting lipid measurements of total cholesterol, high density lipoprotein cholesterol, low density lipoprotein cholesterol, and high density lipoprotein cholesterol, and both postprandial triglyceride measurements exceeded that of fasting triglyceride (r = 0.67). 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1442884/
Abstract: Two children, one with phenylketonuria (PKU) and the other nonphenylketonuric, from untreated pregnancies in a mother with PKU provided the opportunity to compare the degree of damage from maternal PKU between these genotypically different fetuses. Both the phenylketonuric offspring and her nonphenylketonuric sib were microcephalic at birth and had congenital anomalies, esophageal atresia in the former and congenital dislocation of the hip in the latter. However, the phenylketonuric child also had intrauterine growth retardation while the nonphenylketonuric sib had normal weight and length at birth. Both children are mentally retarded with an IQ below 50 in the phenylketonuric child despite early dietary treatment for PKU and an IQ of 54 in the nonphenylketonuric sib. Both children also have hypoplasia of the corpus callosum and enlarged cerebral ventricles. This experience and review of the literature indicates that the residual liver phenylalanine hydroxylase activity of a nonphenylketonuric fetus offers little or no protection from damage in untreated maternal PKU. Consequently, the outcome in maternal PKU is likely to depend on control of the maternal biochemical abnormalities in the mother regardless of whether the fetus has or does not have PKU. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1442724/
Abstract: On the evening of October 10, 1990, many of the 474 inmates of a state prison in Florida began to experience symptoms of gastroenteritis. An investigation included interviews with inmates, evaluation of the kitchen and food-handling practices, cultures of leftover food, stool cultures, and cultures from the nares and skin lesions of food handlers. Of the 331 inmates interviewed, 215 (65%) had diarrhea, vomiting, or both. The median incubation period was 5 hours (range, 1-41 hours). Cases with onset of illness 8 or more hours after the evening meal were more likely than those with earlier onset to have had only diarrhea without vomiting (p < 0.001). Eating turkey at the evening meal on October 10 was associated with risk of illness (relative risk = 4.8, 95% confidence interval 1.7-13.7). Cases who became ill within 8 hours of the evening meal and those who became ill later were both more likely to have eaten turkey than those who did not become ill (p < 0.001 and p < 0.007, respectively). Salmonella infantis and enterotoxin-producing Staphylococcus aureus were both isolated from samples of leftover turkey, and S. infantis was isolated from 18 of 20 stool specimens. Cultures of the anterior nares and skin lesions of food handlers grew S. aureus, but phage typing failed to link these strains to the outbreak. Improper food-handling practices contributed to the development of this outbreak. This report highlights the importance of recognizing multiple-organism outbreaks, since the authors' recommendations for prevention of more cases depended upon knowing the risks associated with the distinct organisms and the possible sources of contamination. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1442721/
Abstract: Previous studies suggesting that maternal undernutrition increases the risk of preterm birth have suffered from several methodological shortcomings, including use of total gestational weight gain rather than net rate of gain in maternal tissue, inclusion of induced preterm deliveries, and error-prone gestational age measurements based solely on menstrual dates. The authors have attempted to overcome these shortcomings by investigating the potential etiologic roles of prepregnancy body mass index, net rate of maternal weight gain, height, and a number of other potential biological and sociodemographic determinants of spontaneous (i.e., noninduced) preterm birth in a cohort of 13,102 women with early ultrasound-confirmed gestational age who delivered at the Royal Victoria Hospital in Montreal, Quebec, Canada, between January 1, 1980 and March 31, 1989. Total weight gain, but not body mass index, was highly significantly associated with spontaneous preterm birth, averaging 14.6, 12.5, 9.9, and 9.1 kg, in women delivering at 37 or more, less than 37, less than 34, and less than 32 completed weeks, respectively. Although the relation persisted when weight gain was expressed as an overall rate, it disappeared when the analysis was based on net rate; mean net rates of gain were 0.28, 0.29, 0.27, and 0.27 kg/week, respectively. On the basis of multiple logistic regression analyses, significant determinants of birth at less than 37 weeks included maternal short stature; noncompletion of high school; unmarried status; smoking; diabetes; urinary tract infection within 2 weeks of delivery; prepregnancy hypertension; severe pregnancy-induced hypertension; and previous history of preterm delivery, low birth weight, or neonatal death. Most of these factors retained their significance for birth at less than 34 and less than 32 weeks. In fact, the effect of low maternal education was even stronger at these more severe "levels" of preterm birth. The authors conclude that prepregnancy weight-for-height and gestational weight gain are not important determinants of spontaneous preterm birth and that some previous studies have mistaken an effect of shortened gestation for its cause. Other biologic and social determinants, however, indicate priorities for future research and intervention. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1442735/
Abstract: Although obesity is a risk factor for mortality, evidence that weight loss improves survival is limited. The relation between self-reported previous maximum weight, weight loss, and subsequent mortality was examined in 2,140 men and 2,550 women aged 45-74 years who participated in the First National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (1971-1975) and survived the next 5 years. Vital status was determined through 1987. Among men and women whose maximum body mass index (weight (kg)/height (m)2) was between 26 and 29, risk of death increased with increasing weight loss, after adjustment for age, race, smoking, parity, preexisting illnesses, and maximum body mass index. Subjects who lost 15% or more of their maximum weight had over twice the mortality risk of those who lost less than 5%. At maximum body mass indices of 29 or higher, mortality risk increased with the amount of weight lost in women, but weight loss of 5% to < 15% appeared to lessen mortality risk in men. Generalization from these results is limited by the older age range of the sample and the inability to adequately distinguish voluntary from involuntary weight loss in this study. However, these findings suggest that prevention of severe overweight may be more generally effective than weight loss in reducing obesity-related mortality in the US population. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1443079/
Abstract: Aspartame is a low-calorie food sweetener recently approved by the FDA for general human consumption. One of us (AJG) treated a patient whose symptoms of episodic vertigo and continuous unsteadiness resolved upon ceasing aspartame intake. A literature review revealed that although dizziness has been associated with aspartame intake, no systematic study of the problem exists. As an initial attempt to ascertain the prevalence of aspartame-related dizziness in an otolaryngologic clinic, we elected to study prospectively all patients entering with the complaint of vertigo by means of a standardized questionnaire. Those patients determined to consume aspartame were further studied in a nonblinded manner to see if aspartame intake could be correlated to symptomatology. A cross-over limb was also attempted, but no patient would participate. This presentation details the case history of the propositus patient and the preliminary results of the currently ongoing prospective study. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1443090/
Abstract: This paper is one in a series which explores the possibility of using the non-destructive CT technique to identify patterns in tooth enamel distribution and structure of hominid molars from Plio-Pleistocene sites in South Africa, notably Swartkrans, Sterkfontein, and Kromdraai. Whereas previous investigators have emphasised gross differences in absolute and relative or average enamel thickness between hominid taxa, the present study highlights differences in enamel thickness over functionally significant regions of the crown. Differences in the distribution of enamel in A. robustus, A. africanus, and Homo sp. are identified through the use of bivariate and multivariate analyses, and are interpreted in terms of dietary regimes. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1443094/
Abstract: Measurement of carbon and nitrogen stable isotope ratios (delta 13C and delta 15N) in samples of human bone collagen (n = 93) from a temporal series of four prehistoric (early preagricultural, late preagricultural, early agricultural, late agricultural) and two historic (early contact, late contact) periods from the Georgia Bight, a continental embayment on the southeastern U.S. Atlantic coast, reveals a general temporal trend for less negative delta 13C values and less positive delta 15N values. This trend reflects a concomitant decrease in emphasis on marine resources and increased reliance on C4-based resources, especially maize. This dietary reorientation is most apparent for the early agricultural sample (AD 1150-1300), coinciding with the Mississippian fluorescence in the eastern United States. There is, however, a shift toward the use of C3 (non-maize) foods during the last prehistoric period (AD 1300-1450), which is likely related to environmental stress and social disruption. A heavier use of maize and terrestrial resources in general after the establishment of mission centers on barrier islands is indicated. A reduced dietary breadth during the mission period may have contributed to the extinction of these populations in the eighteenth century. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1443109/
Abstract: To investigate their putative capacity for lactose digestion, primed continuous orogastric infusions of [1-13C]glucose and D-[1-13C]lactose were administered on consecutive days to five premature infants (30-31 wk gestation, 15-32 days of age), who were fed by orogastric infusions of human milk or formula. By monitoring the plateau isotopic enrichment of plasma glucose using isotopomers containing the entire derivatized glucose molecule or C-2 through C-6, we were able to distinguish label appearing in the peripheral circulation deriving from unmetabolized glucose from that arising from recycled or fermented glucose (or lactose). Isotopic enrichment of the C-1 of glucose, corrected for recycling, was then calculated during each tracer infusion, and the fraction of dietary lactose subjected to in vivo hydrolysis was estimated from these values and the respective tracer infusion rates, assuming similar absorptive and metabolic fates of labeled glucose arising from either tracer. This fraction averaged 1.02 +/- 0.16 (SD), suggesting that lactose digestion is efficient by 34-wk postconceptional age. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1443124/
Abstract: Seventy-eight healthy obese subjects, 40 premenopausal women and 38 men aged 27-51 yr received a 4.2 MJ/day energy-deficit diet for 13 wk. Resting metabolic rate (RMR) and diet-induced thermogenesis (DIT) were measured by indirect calorimetry. Abdominal subcutaneous and visceral fat areas were calculated from magnetic resonance imaging scans before and after weight loss. Before weight loss, visceral fat accumulation was positively correlated with higher levels of RMR (P < 0.05) and DIT (P < 0.01) in women but not in men. The mean weight reduction was 12.2 +/- 3.5 (SD) kg. In men but not in women, an initially large visceral fat depot was associated with a reduced loss of weight and total fat mass (P < 0.05). Within each sex, an initial abundance of visceral fat was significantly related to a larger loss of visceral fat (P < 0.001) and in men to a smaller loss of subcutaneous fat (P < 0.05). These results suggest that there may be gender differences in the associations between visceral fat accumulation and components of energy expenditure (RMR and DIT) in obese subjects. Obese subjects with an initial abundance of visceral fat do not lose more body weight but more visceral fat than subjects with less visceral fat. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1443235/
Abstract: To assess changes in zinc metabolism with age, kinetic studies were performed in healthy adults (26 men, 21 women) aged 20-84 yr after a single oral or intravenous bolus of 65Zn. Studies covered two consecutive 9-mo periods while subjects were on a basal dietary intake of approximately 10 mg Zn/day and while taking an additional 100 mg Zn/day orally. Zinc metabolism was analyzed by compartmental analysis using data from plasma, red blood cells, urine, feces, liver, thigh, and whole body [M. E. Wastney, R. L. Aamodt, W. F. Rumble, and R. I. Henkin. Am. J. Physiol. 251 (Regulatory Integrative Comp. Physiol. 20): R398-R408, 1986]. Changes in observed and model calculated values of zinc metabolism were assessed on age by regression. During basal state, zinc release from red blood cells decreased with age. During zinc loading, response (defined as change from basal state) of plasma zinc concentration, urinary zinc excretion, and liver zinc increased with age, while response of fraction of zinc taken up by red blood cells decreased with age. In men, response of amount of zinc absorbed increased with age and in women response of fraction of endogenous zinc excreted decreased with age. Four responses that changed with age (urinary excretion, red blood cell exchange, absorption, and endogenous excretion) occurred at previously defined sites of regulation of zinc metabolism. Results show that regulation of zinc metabolism changes with age. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1443368/
Abstract: The clinical courses of 53 adult patients with the short bowel syndrome (SBS) were evaluated to determine the incidence of and indications for reoperation. Mesenteric vascular disease (23 patients) and malignancy/irradiation (18 patients) were the most frequent causes of resection. Early reoperation was necessary in nine (17%) patients, primarily for intestinal complications. Twenty (53%) of the 38 patients leaving the hospital required a later abdominal procedure during the mean follow-up of 30 months (range: 2 to 108 months). Three (33%) of nine patients with ulcer disease had gastric resection. Six (21%) of 28 patients at risk for cholelithiasis developed symptoms. Four of these patients underwent cholecystectomy, and three others had a prophylactic cholecystectomy. Ten patients underwent ostomy closure or formation. Intestinal disease necessitated stricturoplasty (three), serosal patch (one), minimal resection (three), or takedown of an ileal conduit (one). Twenty-four (63%) of 38 patients with SBS received home total parenteral nutrition for a mean of 22 months (range: 2 to 105 months). Eleven patients required more than 1 vascular access procedure, and 4 had more than 3 procedures. Patients with the SBS frequently require reoperation for intestinal conditions, cholelithiasis, peptic ulceration, and vascular access. Prophylactic cholecystectomy and strategies for preserving intestinal length are important considerations in these patients. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1443438/
Abstract: Protein-energy malnutrition (PEM) and insulin resistance (IR) are common features of alcoholic liver cirrhosis (ALC). In order to determine a relationship between them, nutritional status and glucose homeostasis were studied in 26 patients with ALC. Nutritional status was assessed through dietary, anthropometric, and biological parameters. An IR index (M/I) was obtained from the euglycemic insulin clamp technique. M/I was significantly correlated with accurate markers of PEM (albumin, transthyretin, and retinol-binding protein) but not with other markers of liver dysfunction. Nine patients were studied before and after nutritional support: M/I was significantly improved as were serum markers of PEM. Other markers of liver dysfunction were also significantly improved. These findings suggest that PEM could be responsible, in part, for IR in patients with ALC who are frequently malnourished. Moreover, nutritional support improved insulin sensitivity in these patients. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1443383/
Abstract: Chylothorax is a potentially life-threatening disorder that has profound respiratory, nutritional, and immunologic consequences. Treatment for this problem is controversial, and the results have been variable. From 1985 to 1990, 29 patients (16 males, 13 females; mean age: 20.1 years; range: 5 days to 76.8 years) were diagnosed as having chylothorax (18 right, 6 left, 5 bilateral). Etiologies included surgical trauma (26) and nonsurgical trauma (3). Initial conservative treatment consisted of tube thoracostomy drainage (mean duration: 13.3 days; range: 1 to 62 days; mean total volume: 4,030 mL) and dietary modification (low-fat diet, total parenteral nutrition). This resulted in resolution of the chylothorax in 23 patients (79% success), although 2 patients died of unrelated causes while hospitalized (myocardial infarction and cardiopulmonary arrest). Five adult patients and one infant (21%) required ligation of the thoracic duct, with resolution of the chylothorax in all six (100% success). Despite successful duct closure, one infant died of respiratory failure unrelated to the operation, and one adult died as the result of a cerebrovascular accident 6 weeks postoperatively, yielding an operative mortality of 33% and an overall mortality of 14% (4 of 29). Our experience demonstrates that initial treatment of chylothorax with thoracostomy drainage and dietary modification is successful in the majority of patients and is not associated with high morbidity or mortality rates. Surgical intervention for chylothoraces that fail to respond to initial conservative measures will be required in a minority of patients but appears to be associated with a higher risk of complications. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1443115/
Abstract: To evaluate the mechanism(s) of the observed increase in plasma glucose concentration following the administration of an intravenous fat emulsion to the neonate, we measured glucose kinetics in eight low-birth-weight neonates by the prime constant rate infusion technique with D-[6,6-2H2]glucose at a rate of 0.22 +/- 0.01 mumol.kg-1 x min-1 (39.4 +/- 1.3 micrograms.kg-1 x min-1) while the neonates received 32 +/- 5 mumol.kg-1 x min-1 glucose (6.3 +/- 1.1 mg.kg-1 x min-1) plus an amino acid mixture (parenteral alimentation) alone and in combination with an intravenous fat emulsion (Intralipid). Following the latter combination, there were significant increases in plasma glucose concentration [4.07 +/- 0.11 (73 +/- 2 mg/dl) to 5.00 +/- 0.22 mmol/l (90 +/- 4 mg/dl); P < 0.01] and in plasma insulin concentration [72 +/- 14 (10 +/- 2 microU/ml) to 172 +/- 36 pmol/l (24 +/- 5 microU/ml); P < 0.05]. The parenteral alimentation and intravenous fat effusion combination did not affect the glucose production rate: 0.15 +/- 0.05 mumol.kg-1 x min-1 (0.03 +/- 0.01 mg.kg-1 x min-1) during the parenteral alimentation alone and 0.16 +/- 0.05 mumol.kg-1 x min-1 (0.03 +/- 0.01 mg.kg-1 x min-1) when parenteral alimentation was combined with an intravenous fat emulsion. We conclude that the increased plasma glucose concentration seen in association with administration of parenteral alimentation combined with an intravenous fat emulsion to the premature neonate is not due to enhanced glucose production but could be the result of alterations in glucose utilization. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1443918/
Abstract: Because of the importance of breast-feeding in the health of both the mother and child, and taking into consideration its poor situation at the present time, it seems fully justified to start a program to promote breast-feeding. This program basically will consist of training health professionals and in the improvement of both the mother's and hospital's practices. It is necessary to motivate health authorities and to curb the excess in formula promotion. Mass-media should be employed for the promotion of breast-feeding and a system should be implemented to obtain a proper record of the duration of breast-feeding. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1443940/
Abstract: Twenty-nine patients affected with dermatitis herpetiformis (HD), all of whom were on a diet including gluten, were investigated for symptoms of enteropathy. Of these patients, 71% presented severe intestinal lesions, indistinguishable from those found in coeliac disease (CD). However, there were little other clinical manifestations of this finding since only three children in this group had weight and height < or = P3. Of the remaining children, 18% had moderate intestinal atrophy and 10% had normal mucosa or mucosa with negligible changes. When changed to a gluten free diet, the intestinal lesions subsided, dermic lesions disappeared in 17 patients, improved in 8 others and remained the same in the other three patients that were still on variable diets. A study of human leukocyte antigens (HLA) class II showed a total association with Dqw2 and 85% association to DR3, which was identical to the coeliac disease control group. These findings lead one to conclude that HD and CD are different clinical expressions of the same sensitivity to gluten which is associated to an immunological disorder with a common genetic base linked to certain HLA molecules. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1443633/
Abstract: Two reverse flow injection (FI) methods, using spectrophotometric detection, are proposed for the determination of ascorbic acid. Both methods are based on its reaction with the ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid-CoIII complex in a medium of 5% diethylamine. In the first method, using the peak-height FI technique, ascorbic acid is determined over the range from 2 x 10(-4) to 5 x 10(-3) mol dm-3 and in the second, using the peak-width FI method, the working range is extended (2 x 10(-3)-5 x 10(-2) mol dm-3). Both FI methods were applied to the determination of ascorbic acid in pharmaceuticals while the peak-height FI technique was also used to determine ascorbic acid in urine. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1443595/
Abstract: In man folates are catabolized and excreted as inactive cleaved degradation products, a mixture of pteridines and p-aminobenzoylglutamate (pABGlu) or its acetamido derivative (apABGlu). The daily rate of excretion represents the inescapable use of the vitamin in metabolic activity and thus has implications for determining the recommended dietary allowance for the vitamin. Furthermore, the rate of catabolism has been suggested to rise during pregnancy and in certain disease states. A method is described for the quantitative extraction and assay of the folate catabolites pABGlu and apABGlu in human urine. Aliquots of 24-h urine collections are acidified and applied to columns of Dowex 50W cation-exchange resin. The catabolites are selectively batch-eluted with increasing concentrations of HCl. The fraction containing pABGlu is diazotized and then applied to a C18 Sep Pak column for further purification and concentration. The fraction containing apABGlu was deacetylated and reapplied to the Dowex column and then treated identically to the pABGlu fraction. The methanolic concentrates of both extracts were evaporated to dryness and reconstituted with water and pABGlu was regenerated by reductive cleavage of the diazotized material with Zn/HCl. The extracts of the two catabolites were separated by reverse-phase HPLC using a Radial Pak C18 column. Recovery of isolated material was monitored by the addition of high specific activity tritiated labels of both compounds added as internal standards to all urine aliquots prior to purification and analysis. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1444020/
Abstract: Although the evidence for oxidative stress for air pollution in the human lung is fragmentary, the hypothesis that oxidative stress is an important, if not the sole, mechanism of toxicity of oxidizing air pollutants and tobacco smoke is compelling and growing. First, biochemical mechanisms have been worked out for oxidation of lung lipids by the gas phase of cigarette smoke, NO2 and O3. The oxidation of lung lipids can be prevented by both vitamins C and E. Vitamin C is more effective in preventing oxidation by NO2, and vitamin E is more effective against O3. Second, multiple species of experimental animals develop lung disease similar to human bronchitis and emphysema from exposure to NO2 and O3, respectively. The development of these diseases occurs over a near lifetime exposure when the levels of NO2 or O3 are at near ambient air pollution values. Third, isolated human cells are protected against oxidative damage from NO2 and O3 by both vitamins C and E. Fourth, the vitamin C level in the lung either declines on exposure to NO2 for short-term exposures or increases on chronic cigarette smoke exposure. The effects of cigarette smoking on serum vitamin C is apparently complex and may be related to the daily intake of vitamin C as well as smoking. Serum vitamin C levels may be poor indicators of lung demands when daily vitamin C intakes are above 100 mg/day. Fifth, vitamin C supplementation protects against the effects of ambient levels of air pollution in adults as measured by histamine challenge. An augmented response to histamine challenge may represent increased lung permeability brought about by air pollution. In experimental animal and human experiments, the amount of vitamin C or E that afforded protection was in excess of the current recommended dietary allowance. Although animal studies do not provide evidence for complete protection against NO2 or O3, they do illustrate that current recommended daily allowances are inadequate for maximum protection against air pollution levels to which over 100 million Americans are exposed. The problem of air pollution and its effects on humans is truly of global concern. Air pollution is not restricted to North America or Japan where it was first recognized, but is a major public health problem in Europe as well. When data are available, air pollution probably will be shown to be a major public health problem in all urban areas of the world.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS) 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1443937/
Abstract: Thirty-seven offspring of patients who had acute myocardial infarctions were investigated. Serum fatty acids of the whole plasma lipids were evaluated within the frame of a full biochemical assessment. Baseline values were obtained and the children were subsequently put on appropriate diets and advised to cut-out smoking and alcohol. The same values were obtained following one year on such a regimen. Results were compared with those found in a control group. Baseline palmitoleic and dihomogammalinolenic acid serum levels were significantly raised in the study group. Values of palmitoleic, but not of dihomogammalinolenic acid, had returned to normal by the reassessment one year later. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1455753/
Abstract: The authors summarize the principles of the therapeutic approach to the 5H syndrome [1. hyperinsulinism, 2. hyperglycaemia (NIDDM), 3. hyperlipoproteinaemia (obesity), 4. hypertension, 5. hirsutism], in particular its two components, i.e. NIDDM and arterial hypertension. The authors found that early treatment of hyperinsulinism, e.g. already in the stage of impaired glucose tolerance or NIDDM with oral antidiabetics, their disproportionate increase with regard to the blood sugar level and glycosylated haemoglobin without making "hygienic" provisions (radical weight reduction; increased physical activity to the maximum possible individual level; energy restricted diet in particular as regards carbohydrates and fat) does not prevent progression of the components of the 5H syndrome to the clinical stage. In treatment of arterial hypertension associated with 5H syndrome non-selective beta-blockers and thiazide diuretics are unsuitable because they worsen the HPLP and enhance insulin resistance. Suitable preparations are combinations of ACE-inhibitors, calcium antagonists, selective beta-blockers in particular with ISA and beta-blockers with a partial selective sympathomimetic activity (devalol and celiprolol). Hygienic provisions must be started in childhood, or when hyperinsulinism is detected. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1455121/
Abstract: The "post-lunch dip" is a common behavioral phenomenon, though perhaps a misnomer. Biphasic models of the human sleep tendency rhythm suggest an alternative explanation for the afternoon decline in alertness. Sleep tendency was measured with the Multiple Sleep Latency Test (MSLT) at 2-hour intervals in 16 volunteers from three age groups (ages 10-12, ages 16-17, ages 62-74 years) during a constant routine in which small meals were given each hour. Baseline scores showed no significant Time of Day effect, although a trend for an afternoon dip was present in the eldest group. During the constant routine, a significant Time of Day effect was found for the two older groups and not for the prepubertal group. The results indicate a midday increase in sleep tendency that is unrelated to food intake but that may be related to developmental or maturational processes. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1455537/
Abstract: An outbreak of trichinosis associated with ingestion of meat from a wild boar in Gojjam administrative region, Ethiopia, is reported. Of the 30 soldiers, 20 who ate the meat raw, became ill and 5 of them were admitted to the Armed Forces General Hospital (AFGH). Even though they presented with a typical history and clinical features the disease was not even suspected at the peripheral hospital. The diagnosis was confirmed, at the AFGH, by deltoid muscle biopsy in all the 5 cases. Trichinosis being increasingly recognized as a public health problem in Ethiopia, warrants public education and more awareness by health workers. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1455858/
Abstract: The authors observed 6 cases of brain pseudotumours in children aged from 3 to 15 years. All patients had been referred with the diagnosis of brain tumour, with headaches, eye fundus changes fundus changes. Some children had nystagmus, squint, vomiting and dizziness. One child had pharyngitis, two had sinusitis. Contrast brain examinations gave normal results. Diet with salt and fluid restriction and oedema-reducing drugs (glycerol, mannitol, decadron) were used. In all patients the neurological and ophthalmological signs regressed within 3 to 12 weeks. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1455531/
Abstract: The prevalence and severity of chronic energy deficiency (CED) among women of reproductive age as well as its consequences on the newborn and the mother were assessed in a longitudinal study. More than 40% of the mothers had a Body Mass Index (BMI) less than 18.5 before pregnancy, a level below which CED is considered to exist. Weight gain during pregnancy was low, on average 6.6 kg. Taking the difference between 4 week postpartum weight and pre-pregnant weight as net weight gain during pregnancy, mothers with a BMI less than 18.5 before pregnancy gained weight while those with a higher BMI lost weight. This observation suggests that the partitioning of energy to the fetus and the mother depends on the energy reserves of the mother before pregnancy. The functional significance of BMI as an indicator of CED is illustrated by its relation with birth weight. Similarly, 4 week postpartum, weight and BMI were predictive for the weight changes in the mother in the first 12 months after delivery. The groups with the lowest values gained weight, while the heaviest mothers lost weight. In view of the negative effects of CED among women of reproductive age on the infant and the mother, maternal undernutrition should receive the same attention as malnutrition among preschool children. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1455766/
Abstract: The authors give an account of views regarding the use of non-glucose energy sources in parenteral nutrition during the immediate post-load period/serious operations, severe injuries). Attention is devoted to the metabolic pathway of fructose and its disorders. In hereditary fructose intolerance an infusion of D-fructose or D-glucitol (= sorbitol) can induce life threatening hypoglycaemia (unless glucose is administered concurrently). According to some views, in subjects with this intolerance the organism is threatened also by hepatic and renal failure; their development may be independent on hypoglycaemia. Fructose and D-glucitol (sorbitol) therefore should not be administered by the parenteral route. This view is supported by cases where hereditary fructose intolerance could not be revealed from the case-history and clinical manifestations. Some countries have already eliminated fructose and D-glucitol (sorbitol) from their pharmacopoeias. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1455008/
Abstract: Recombinant human erythropoietin (EPO) was administered to 12 children with terminal renal failure aged 8-17 years subjected to hemodialysis for a mean period of 16 (S.D. = 19.7) month prior to EPO utilisation. The hormone was administered thrice weekly at an intravenous dose of 25-75 u/kg until Hb value of 100 g/l was obtained, and subsequently at maintenance doses for mean period of 7 (S.D. = 4.0) month. The urea kinetic modeling (UKM) algorithms allowed to compute protein catabolic rate (pcr) for each patient in modeling sessions performed once a month. The analysis included the effect of EPO upon: 1. peripheral whole blood count; 2. individual UKM parameters; 3. selected lab data describing the metabolic status of the patient (predialysis potassium, phosphorus, creatinine, total blood protein and albumin--and iron levels), in three randomized groups according to the value of pcr. Group I presented pcr less than 1.0 g protein/kg/day typical for malnutrition; group II--pcr = 1.0-1.4 g protein/kg/day--with appropriate protein catabolism; group III--pcr greater than 1.4 g protein/kg/day--hypercatabolic. The results from 188 pre-EPO modeling sessions and 78 sessions in the course of EPO treatment were compared. All the three groups revealed statistically significant increased Hb, Ht and erythrocyte count after EPO administration, which also resulted an increase of protein catabolism what is manifested in a decrease in the number of sessions by 26.1% in Group I and a corresponding increase by 13.5% and 12.6% in Groups II and III, respectively.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS) 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1454984/
Abstract: Use of vitamin supplements and the association with personal characteristics were investigated among 4,654 American men of Japanese ancestry in Hawaii. A total of 58 percent of the subjects who were ages 68 to 90 took vitamin supplements. Among supplement users, multivitamins were most commonly used (77 percent), followed by vitamin C (53 percent), E (43 percent), and A (10 percent). Ninety-two percent of users took at least seven pills per week when all types of pills were combined. Vitamin supplement users were more educated, more physically active, more likely to be married, and less obese than nonusers. They also slept less, smoked less, and drank less alcohol and caffeine. They took more analgesics and stomach medication and had fewer days of hospitalization in the previous 10 years compared with nonusers. Except for physical activity, use of stomach medicines, and hospitalization, the other characteristics were also positively correlated with the amount of vitamin pill intake. These findings indicate that vitamin supplement users have different health patterns compared with nonusers. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1455881/
Abstract: The electromyographic activity of the gastrointestinal tract was studied in 28 patients undergoing gastric, biliary, and pancreatic operations with reconstruction of the gastrointestinal tract with a Roux-en-Y limb. The Roux-en-Y limb was constructed 1 to 5 years before the study in 8 patients (chronic Roux-en-Y) and at the operation in which the electrodes were implanted in 20 patients (recent Roux-en-Y). All four phases of the migrating motor complex (MMC) were identified in the gastrointestinal tract, including in the Roux-en-Y limb. The duration of the MMC was 82.4 +/- 22.3 min in the patients with chronic Roux-en-Y and 89.0 +/- 25.1 min in the patients with recent Roux-en-Y. Food ingestion converted the MMC to the fed pattern in the entire gastrointestinal tract, including the Roux-en-Y limb in 16 (76.2%) of 21 recordings of the patients with chronic Roux-en-Y and in 27 (84.4%) of 32 recordings of the patients with recent Roux-en-Y. The duration of the fed pattern was 170 +/- 34 min in the patients with chronic Roux-en-Y and 154 +/- 26 min in the patients with recent Roux-en-Y. The findings of this study indicate that the electromyographic activity of the Roux-en-Y limb is normal during both fasting and fed states, even many years after the construction of the Roux-en-Y. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1455964/
Abstract: The data on the etiological structure of Shigella infections in the USSR in 1988-1989 are presented. The study showed the dominating role of S. flexneri with S. sonnei also retaining great importance in Shigella infections. The process of the liquidation of S. dysenteriae and S. boydii infections began in some large cities. The domination of dysentery caused by S. flexneri and a high typhoid rate, particularly in Central Asia, were due to poor water supply of the population. The spread of dysentery caused by S. sonnei was completely independent of the water factor. The decisive role in the transmission of S. sonnei in infective doses was explained by decentralized milk supply. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1456195/
Abstract: Patients with noninsulin-dependent diabetes demonstrate peripheral insulin resistance that is aggravated by increased hepatic glucose production and results in elevated serum insulin and serum glucose levels. These levels can be affected by intensive diabetic management, including diet, exercise, lifestyle modifications and insulin or sulfonylurea therapy. Sulfonylureas stimulate endogenous insulin production, increase peripheral sensitivity to insulin and suppress hepatic glucose production. In spite of its added expense, increased potential for side effects and questionable efficacy, combination therapy with insulin and a sulfonylurea is often considered in noninsulin-dependent diabetics with difficult-to-control disease. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1455872/
Abstract: Contrary to total parenteral nutrition with its relatively recent introduction into modern clinical medicine, enteral nutrition has a long and colorful history. Prior to development of fiberoptic endoscopy, physicians attempting to feed patients who could not or would not eat were limited to the blind placement of intestinal tubes or radiologically assisted placement of these devices. Previous to these modern attempts, the use of nutrient enemas was attempted for which there was evidence of occasional success. With the introduction of fiberoptic flexible endoscopy, guidance of tubes into the upper intestinal tract under direct vision became feasible. The manner in which tubes were positioned, advanced, or manipulated are myriad and attest to the ingenuity of clinicians. A revolution in endoscopic intervention occurred with the introduction of the percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy in 1980. This provided secure access to the stomach without a laparotomy. This technique was also modified to allow decompression of the stomach with feeding distally into the small intestine and also direct puncture and placement of tubes into the small intestine. The most recent advance in enteral nutrition is taking place at the present time with the introduction of laparoscopic techniques in the creation of gastrostomies and jejunostomies. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1455972/
Abstract: A total of 192 patients with Flexner's dysentery 1 have been examined. As a result, sharply pronounced unbalance of cell-mediated and humoral immunity factors has developed in the acute period of dysentery, reaching its maximal manifestations in severe course of the disease. In case of a tendency to a prolonged course of dysentery at the period of convalescence, essential shifts in immunological characteristics persist and the infective agent is repeatedly isolated. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1456086/
Abstract: The disparity in fracture incidence and bone mass in women of European (white) and African (black) ancestry is of unknown etiology. To determine if racial differences in bone mass reflected racial differences in the mechanisms of bone turnover underlying bone mineral loss, we measured serum osteocalcin, serum alkaline phosphatase, fasting urinary calcium and hydroxyproline excretion, 24 h urinary excretion of calcium and sodium, and dietary intakes of calcium and vitamin D in 263 healthy pre-, peri-, and postmenopausal white and black women. In addition, radial and spinal bone density were measured cross-sectionally for comparison with biochemical measures of bone turnover. The biochemical parameters thought to reflect bone resorption (fasting urinary calcium and hydroxyproline excretions) were lower in black than in white women throughout the age and menopausal stages studied. The parameters thought to reflect bone formation (alkaline phosphatase and osteocalcin), were similar in the two racial groups among the premenopausal women, but osteocalcin was significantly lower among the peri- and postmenopausal blacks. Cross sectionally measured radial bone density increased with age in premenopausal black women, but it did not change with age in the white premenopausal subjects, a statistically significant difference. In peri- and postmenopausal women radial density declined significantly with years after menopause in both racial groups, but the rate of decline was significantly slower in the black women. Lumbar bone density in premenopausal white and black women did not change with age. After menopause lumbar bone density declined significantly and similarly in both racial groups.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS) 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1456073/
Abstract: This study examines the relationship between folate, vitamin B12 and severity of cognitive impairment in patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD) as compared with other disorders associated with cognitive impairment. The patients were 97 consecutive referrals to an AD clinic. Forty patients had either possible or probable AD, 31 had other dementias (OD) and 26 had mild cognitive impairment (cognitively impaired, not demented; CIND). Patients had blood drawn for serum, red cell folate and B12, as well as other biochemical indicators of nutrition, within 24 h of the Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE). In the AD group, only B12 was significantly correlated with MMSE. Using regression analysis, B12 contributed significantly to variance in MMSE. There was no correlation between MMSE and serum, red cell folate or B12 in the OD or CIND group and no significant correlation between MMSE and other nutritional indices in any group. These findings suggest the possibility of a specific relationship between B12 levels and severity of cognitive impairment in patients with AD. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1456345/
Abstract: We measured the concentrations of lead leached into 4% acetic acid, white port, and a synthetic alcoholic beverage that were stored in lead crystal decanters for 1-, 2-, and 10-day periods at room temperature. In decanters from 14 different manufacturers, measured lead concentrations ranged from 100 to 1800 micrograms/L. The pH of the leaching medium is probably the dominant factor determining the extent of lead leached, with greater leaching occurring at lower pH values. The consumption of alcoholic beverages stored in lead crystal decanters is judged to pose a hazard. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1456336/
Abstract: Objectives:
        
      
      Although differences in obesity between Blacks and Whites are well documented in adult women, less information is available on potential correlates of these differences, especially in young adults. Methods:
        
      
      The association between behavioral and demographic factors and body size was assessed in 2801 Black and White women aged 18 to 30 years. Results:
        
      
      Black women had significantly higher age-adjusted mean body mass index and subscapular skinfold thickness than did White women. Obesity had different associations with age and education across racial groups. A positive relationship between age and obesity was seen in Black women but not in White women, whereas a negative association between education and body size was noted only in White women. Potential contributing factors to the increased prevalence of obesity in Black women include a more sedentary lifestyle, higher energy intake, earlier menarche, and earlier age at first childbirth. Conclusions:
        
      
      The difference in obesity across race could not be explained completely by these factors, since within virtually all strata, Black women had higher body mass indexes. Further investigation is needed to develop interventional strategies to prevent or reduce excess levels of obesity in Black women. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1456349/
Abstract: The slavery hypothesis for hypertension has stated that the high blood pressures sometimes measured in African Americans are caused by one or more of these conditions: first, salt deficiency in the parts of Africa that supplied slaves for the Americas; second, the trauma of the slave trade itself; third, conditions of slavery in the United States. A review of the historical evidence shows that there was no salt deficiency in those parts of Africa, nor do present-day West Africans have a high incidence of hypertension. Historical evidence does not support the hypothesis that deaths aboard slave ships were caused mainly by conditions that might be conductive to hypertension, such as salt-depleting diseases. Finally, the hypothesis has depended heavily on evidence from the West Indies, which is not relevant for the United States. There is no evidence that diet or the resulting patterns of disease and demography among slaves in the American South were significantly different from those of other poor southerners. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1456416/
Abstract: We report a case of allergic reaction to oral 6-methyl-prednisolone in a patient with Henoch Schenlein syndrome. When this syndrome was first diagnosed the patient was started on 6-methyl-prednisolone orally and after 4 days he developed a pruriginous generalized maculo-papular eruption. The rash disappeared 1 week after withdrawal of 6-methyl-prednisolone. The skin tests performed 1 month after with main food allergens were negative. Patch test with 0.10 ml of solution containing 6-methyl-prednisolone 40 mg/ml was positive after 48 and 72 h. The cutaneous biopsy on the patch tested skin revealed a perivascular infiltrate of lymphocytes, histiocytes and eosinophils. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1456405/
Abstract: We developed a sensitive sandwich-type ELISA for measuring low levels of cow's milk (CM) beta-lactoglobulin. Purified anti-beta-lactoglobulin was used as coating antibody and also as second antibody conjugated with alkaline phosphatase. Polyethylene glycol 6000 was added to the incubation buffers to improve sensitivity. The detection limit of the assay was 0.002 microgram/l, which is much better than sensitivities reported for other beta-lactoglobulin assays. The sensitivity was not impaired by the presence of other CM proteins. The recovery from breast milk was 93% and from the diluting buffer 127%. The coefficient of variation within day was 5-15% and between days 10%. One hour after oral intake of milk, beta-lactoglobulin could be detected in the breast milk of three mothers at concentrations of about 1-2 micrograms/l. Widely different concentrations of beta-lactoglobulin were measured in two protein hydrolysates based on CM whey and casein proteins; the observed concentrations were 200 and 0.0056 micrograms beta-lactoglobulin/g dry weight, respectively. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1456414/
Abstract: The content of major allergens in biologically standardized allergenic preparations of birch, mite (Der p), cat, Alternaria (Alt a) and ragweed (Amb e) was determined. It was found fairly constant between species, i.e. varied within a factor of 2, with the exception of Alt a 1 in Alternaria alternata extract. This variation is allowed by authorities between different batches prepared from the same species of allergen. The method for biological standardization (BS) prescribed in the Nordic Guidelines has, for common inhalant allergens, been shown to give reproducible results between regions of Europe. However, it is difficult to define patients suitable for BS of most food allergens as well as less common inhalant allergens. Therefore we propose that, in the future, BS is replaced by determination of well-established major allergens and that 1 ng of major allergen is given the value of 1 Biological Unit. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1495358/
Abstract: Multiple forms of surgical treatment exist for Zenker's diverticulum. Appropriate treatment needs to be tailored based on the needs of the patient and the resources and skills of the surgeon. We have reviewed the available surgical options and presented a series of 10 patients treated with a new technique, the KTP/532 laser diverticulotomy. The diverticulotomy is particularly well-suited to the debilitated patient who cannot tolerate a prolonged operation or a prolonged postoperative recovery. The results of the technique are comparable with those of other forms of diverticulotomy, and it is concluded that the KTP/532 laser is a simple, safe, and effective form of surgical treatment with exciting potential for future use. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1495285/
Abstract: Elevated total plasma cholesterol level is a frequent finding after cardiac transplantation. To identify risk factors for the development of hypercholesterolemic states, we applied multivariate statistics in a logistic and linear manner. Six-month posttransplantation levels of total plasma cholesterol in 57 adult heart recipients were available for analysis. Maintenance immunosuppression was carried out with either cyclosporine and azathioprine or both agents plus low-dose steroids. Total plasma cholesterol levels were dichotomized for the logistic analysis (1) by the age- and sex-matched 75th and 90th percentiles of a reference population according to National Institutes of Health treatment guidelines and (2) by the cut point 250 mg/dl. Twelve potential risk factors were evaluated as covariates: recipient age, body weight after 6 months, body weight gain over 6 months, body mass index after 6 months, body mass index gain over 6 months, current cyclosporine dosage, trough level of cyclosporine in whole blood according to high-performance liquid chromatography after 6 months, cumulative cyclosporine dosage over 6 months, serum bilirubin, type of original cardiac disease, maintenance steroids, and steroid bolus treatment. Multivariate logistic regression yielded the type of original cardiac disease as a significant predictor of posttransplantation hypercholesterolemia exceeding the 90th percentile (p = 0.019) and of hypercholesterolemia exceeding 250 mg/dl (p = 0.032). Maintenance steroids were identified as a second significant cofactor (p = 0.069) for total plasma cholesterol levels exceeding 250 mg/dl. Multiple linear regression again revealed the type of original cardiac disease and maintenance steroids as significant predictors by p values of 0.005 and 0.013, respectively. Patients with coronary artery disease as the original cardiac pathology and low-dose maintenance steroids had the greatest risk for the development of elevated total plasma cholesterol levels after cardiac transplantation. However, the overall predictive quality of the linear model was limited (multiple r value 0.43), which indicates that other variables besides the tested ones attributed to elevated total plasma cholesterol levels. These results confirm the adverse role of maintenance steroids on posttransplantation hypercholesterolemia and demonstrate the type of original cardiac disease as the most important risk factor. They suggest that abnormalities of lipoprotein metabolism and dietary factors continue to affect total plasma cholesterol levels after cardiac transplantation. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1495568/
Abstract: The blood cholesterol level is not constant over time. Changing values may be found when rechecking high values, especially in patients on a diet or receiving medication. Repeated measurements are necessary. It will then be possible to estimate the 'true mean value'. This is the theoretical average of a large number of measurements taken from one person. The study concentrated on the intra-individual variation of the serum cholesterol and the consequences for screening and follow-up. For this purpose, during a period of four weeks, cholesterol levels were measured 12 times in 33 men aged 25-40. The mean coefficient of variation was 5.7%, with wide differences between participants, ranging from 2.9% to 9.8%. The position of the 'true mean value' was estimated (with 90% confidence), after I resp. 3 determinations. These findings have consequences for the classification of subjects in the different risk categories as defined in the Dutch Cholesterol Consensus. It is also possible to determine if, after a period of intervention, there is a significant decline in the cholesterol level. Roughly, a decline of 10-12% indicates a significant difference. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1495452/
Abstract: The aim of the study is to evaluate thyroid serum levels in a geriatric community to confirm the presence of a low T3 syndrome during normal ageing. The authors consider 413 subjects (125 male and 288 female) admitted to our Geriatric Division. The group affected by thyroid and extrathyroid disease (such us malnutrition, diabetes mellitus, renal failure, etc.) was withdrawn. In the selected patients (271) was operated a statistical evaluation to correlate the hormonal parameters (T3, T4, TSH, FT3, FT4) with age and sex. According to international literature, we confirm a progressive T4 and FT4 reduction (p less than 0.05) during ageing, both in male and in female. These data range within normal values. On the contrary, TSH shows no modifications with age and sex. Unlike all other parameters, T3 presents a more evident decrement with age, confirming a low T3 syndrome. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1495349/
Abstract: Tumorigenesis requires increased biosynthesis of polyamines and elevated levels of ornithine decarboxylase, which is the rate-limiting enzyme in the polyamine synthesis pathway. Previous animal studies have noted a marked increase in ornithine decarboxylase after exposure to tumorigenic stimuli and that pretreatment with vitamins A and E provides protection against the carcinogenic action. However, studies of ornithine decarboxylase activity in human oral cavity carcinoma have not been as specific. The goal of this study was to determine whether a specific difference in ornithine decarboxylase activity occurs in tumor versus adjacent normal tissue in head and neck squamous cell carcinoma patients. Ornithine decarboxylase activity was measured in 30 consecutive head and neck cancer patients undergoing surgical therapy. Ornithine decarboxylase levels were found to be significantly elevated in tumor tissue samples when compared to adjacent normal mucosa samples (P less than .004). This finding confirms the previous findings noted in animal models and implies that the protective effects of vitamins A and E will extend to human head and neck cancers. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1495647/
Abstract: Object:
        
      
      New Zealanders, because of a soil deficiency, have a low intake of selenium. To determine the impact of this on the infant population in Christchurch. Methods:
        
      
      we have measured red cell and plasma selenium and the selenoenzyme, glutathione peroxidase, in 70 infants less than 12 months old and related these to age and diet. Results:
        
      
      the infant population as a whole had mean plasma levels of selenium and glutathione peroxidase of 33 micrograms/L and 97 U/L compared with adult values of 74 micrograms/L and 150 U/L. Infant red cell levels of 0.30 mu g selenium and 9.0 U glutathione peroxidase per g haemoglobin were similar to those in adults. The selenium status of most breast fed infants after birth remained similar to that of cord blood. Mean plasma selenium and glutathione peroxidase levels in formula fed infants were about half those of breast fed infants, and their red cell selenium was also significantly lower. These did not increase until solids were introduced into the diet. The status of the infants reflected their diet, with the concentration of selenium in formulae being 3.9-5.2 micrograms/mL compared with a mean of 13.4 micrograms/mL in breast milk. Conclusions:
        
      
      since infants in more replete selenium areas show a gradual rise in blood selenium parameters after birth, this study suggests that formula fed and some breast fed infants in Christchurch receive an inadequate selenium intake. Consideration should be given to supplementing infant formulae and perhaps also the diet of pregnant and/or breast feeding mothers. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1495712/
Abstract: Paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia is the most common sustained cardiac arrhythmia in pregnant women. Because nearly 50% of these supraventricular tachyarrhythmias fail to respond to vagal maneuvers, other therapies are used, including electrocardioversion and pharmacologic agents. Propranolol, verapamil, and adenosine have Food and Drug Administration-approved labeling for acute termination of supraventricular tachycardia. Verapamil has been the most commonly used agent in the general population but it has several shortcomings, such as its potential to cause or exacerbate systemic hypotension, congestive heart failure, bradyarrhythmias, and ventricular fibrillation. In addition, verapamil readily crosses the placenta and has been shown to cause fetal bradycardia, heart block, depression of contractility, and hypotension. Adenosine has several advantages over verapamil, including rapid onset, brevity of side effects, theoretical safety, and probable lack of placental transfer. Adenosine ultimately may prove to be the preferred agent for termination of paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia in the gravid woman. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1495663/
Abstract: Aim:
        
      
      Foodhandling practices in the Dunedin catering industry were assessed to determine if they were correct, preventing the transmission of foodborne disease to the public. Method:
        
      
      A random sample of 300 foodservice outlets was selected. Information was collected during personal interviews with managers using a prepared questionnaire. Potentially dangerous practices were further analysed and summed to identify "at risk" operations. Results:
        
      
      Response rate was 71%. Thirty-six percent of restaurants, 27% of takeaway bars and 25% of deli-bars and butchers could have been considered at risk operations. Few managers had any formal training in preparing and serving food, and less than 20% of managers and personnel had any food hygiene training. Conclusions:
        
      
      Current legislation and its enforcement is unable to adequately address incorrect food handling practices. It is recommended that revisions of the law emphasise the importance of correct practices and their enforcement. Food hygiene training should become compulsory for all who work in the catering industry. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1495886/
Abstract: Non-insulin-dependent (type II) diabetes mellitus is a progressive disease that requires sequential therapy to achieve optimal control. When diet and sulfonylurea fail to maintain glycemic control, the addition of a single daily injection of insulin may be indicated. The best candidates for this combined therapy are patients with typical adult-onset disease that has been present less than 10 to 15 years. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1495853/
Abstract: Malnutrition is associated with a number of systemic diseases that are often accompanied by severe exercise limitation. Anorexia nervosa (AN) is a disease characterized by malnutrition due to psychological factors rather than systemic disease. Diminished exercise capacity in AN has been attributed to a loss of muscle mass, dysfunction of remaining muscle, and impaired cardiovascular responses. In order to evaluate the role of malnutrition in the cardiopulmonary response to exercise, nine adolescent girls with AN were evaluated during progressive and steady-state exercise testing using a cycle ergometer. Nutritional status was assessed by body mass percentile (BMP) and percent ideal weight (PIWT). Cardiac output was measured by the indirect (CO2 rebreathing) Fick method. Maximum work capacity (Wmax) was expressed as a percent of predicted for sex and height, and cardiac output as a percent of predicted for oxygen consumption. To ensure that the laboratory values were comparable to the predicted values, a control group consisting of ten adolescents was studied concurrently. Wmax was below the 95% confidence interval in six of nine of the AN group (mean +/- SD: 70 +/- 22% predicted), whereas two of ten controls were below and one above this interval (112 +/- 37%). Wmax correlated with nutritional status (BMP: r = 0.75; P less than 0.001; PIWT: r = 0.8, P less than 0.001). Ventilatory responses for CO2 production at steady state and for Wmax were appropriate in both groups. Cardiac output was appropriate in both the controls (103 +/- 12%) and the AN group (104 +/- 14%).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS) 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1495822/
Abstract: The basis of our belief in migraine triggering factors is questioned. To avoid creating migraine-mythology, it is proposed that a trigger for migraine must also cause headache in non-migrainous subjects. This headache-migraine parallelism is examined and if correct, casts doubt on migraine precipitation by cheese, chocolate or allergy. A further weakness of "dietary migraine" is pointed out because the quantity of the trigger consumed, or the time interval between ingestion and the onset of attacks, are rarely mentioned, let alone studied. A difficulty in assessing migraine precipitants is that two factors may act in unison, e.g. stress and not eating. Further an external factor may provoke an attack only if the migraine "milieu intriur" is set appropriately, for example the hormonal state in a woman's menstrual cycle. The value of studying migraine precipitants is two-fold: (1) it provides a means of counselling patients to avoid or reduce these factors, thereby diminishing frequency and severity of attacks; (2) a comprehensive migraine pathogenetic theory must incorporate how and where precipitants act. It is concluded that analysis of triggering mechanisms lends support to the concept that migraine is a primary neurological disturbance with secondary vascular manifestations. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1495885/
Abstract: The clinical use of sulfonylureas described in this article is both rational and effective for diabetic patients. Sulfonylureas are not used (1) in patients with insulin-dependent (type I) diabetes, because they are completely ineffective or (2) in patients with non-insulin-dependent (type II) diabetes who respond satisfactorily to diet, because they are unnecessary. In a patient with type II diabetes who has few or no symptoms but does not respond satisfactorily to diet, a sulfonylurea is introduced at a low dose, with gradual increases until a satisfactory response occurs, thus avoiding hypoglycemia. When symptoms of type II diabetes are marked, initiation of therapy with maximum doses of a sulfonylurea quickly distinguishes patients who need insulin therapy from those who have a good chance of responding to an oral drug. Abuse of sulfonylureas occurs when patients who could benefit from diet alone are treated with the drugs unnecessarily or, more often, when patients with poorly controlled disease continue to take maximum doses of the drugs. The usual situation is one in which the patient refuses insulin therapy or the physician does not suggest starting it. In other cases, the poorly controlled patient may be allowed to continue with a combination of a sulfonylurea and an ineffective dose of insulin. In this circumstance, the oral drug should be discontinued and insulin doses increased until control is more satisfactory. Because evidence is so compelling that near euglycemia has a beneficial effect on diabetic retinopathy, nephropathy, and neuropathy, physicians really do patients a disservice by misusing sulfonylureas. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1495894/
Abstract: The hydrolysis kinetics of various alkyl, glycolamide, aminoethyl, and 2-(1-imidazolyl)ethyl esters of ibuprofen and flurbiprofen in 80% human plasma were investigated using a direct high-performance liquid chromatographic assay for the enantiomers of these acids. In each case, the R-isomer ester was found to undergo faster plasma-catalyzed hydrolysis than the corresponding S-isomer. The difference in the hydrolysis rates between the enantiomeric forms ranged from a factor of 1.4 for the N,N-diethylglycolamide ester of ibuprofen to a factor of 50 and 25 for the 2-(1-imidazolyl)ethyl ester of ibuprofen and flurbiprofen, respectively. Therefore, enantioselective differences in plasma-catalyzed ester prodrug hydrolysis must be taken into account when evaluating prodrugs of racemic mixtures of chiral drugs. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1495661/
Abstract: Aims:
        
      
      To investigate the effects of simvastatin in patients with heterozygous familial hypercholesterolaemia refractory or intolerant to routine drug therapy. Method:
        
      
      Eighteen patients were given increasing doses of 10, 20 and 40 mg simvastatin for eight week periods, followed by a control period on their former drug therapy in a prospective, crossover clinical study. Results:
        
      
      Mean total and low density lipoprotein cholesterol (SEM) were significantly lower on 40 mg simvastatin alone than at the end of the control period (7.3 (0.3) mmol/L vs 10.7 (0.4) and 5.1 (0.3) vs 7.8 (0.5) respectively; p less than 0.01). Apo-B was also significantly lower on 40 mg simvastatin (p less than 0.01). Conclusion:
        
      
      Simvastatin offers effective cholesterol lowering for patients with drug resistant familial hypercholesterolaemia. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1496090/
Abstract: The Multidimensional Health Locus of Control Scale was administered to 137 chronic hemodialysis outpatients in a survey designed to examine the relationship of these scores to serum phosphorus, a laboratory indicator of dietary compliance in end-stage renal disease. In a multiple regression analysis, scores on the Powerful Others Locus of Control subscale accounted for 8.9% of the variance in serum phosphorus. Discussion includes a tentative explanation of the findings and limitations of the design. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1496118/
Abstract: This paper reviews the evidence that certain dietary components can affect intestinal absorption of magnesium. Increased intakes of protein and fructose improve apparent magnesium absorption (magnesium intake minus fecal excretion) in humans, whereas a lowering effect occurs with consumption of cellulose and phytate. Although dietary concentrations of lactose, fat, calcium and phosphate have clear effects on magnesium absorption in experiments with rats, the impact of these nutrients on magnesium absorption in humans remains unsettled. Mechanisms underlying the effects of dietary components on magnesium absorption in humans are generally poorly understood. A change in magnesium absorption not necessarily results in a change in magnesium retention. When consuming practical diets, the fall of apparent magnesium absorption caused by phytate and cellulose is generally compensated by increased magnesium intake due to high magnesium concentrations in phytate- and cellulose-rich products. Furthermore, to maintain homeostasis, urinary magnesium excretion will be raised after stimulation of apparent magnesium absorption and it will be lowered after impairment of apparent magnesium absorption. Thus, the effects of dietary components on magnesium absorption probably are critically important only at low intakes of magnesium. At low magnesium intakes, differences in magnesium absorption may be expected to influence magnesium retention and thus can either induce or abolish magnesium deficiency. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1496120/
Abstract: The intestinal microflora represents an enormous cell mass and has a high metabolic capacity. The symbiotic efficacy of these microbes in humans is still a matter of discussion. Of particular interest, from a biogenetic point of view, are potential symbiotic relations between the bifidobacterial microflora and the breast-fed infant. Our group has conducted studies related to this topic; they were aimed at determining the dimension of microbial assimilation by the host. Our studies with 15N-labeled bifidobacteria have shown that the bifidobacterial microflora is capable of upgrading nonessential nitrogen such as urea nitrogen for the synthesis of microbial protein. Oral single pulse labelings with 15N-labeled bifidobacteria were absorbed to approximately 90% and retained in the infant's protein pool to approximately 70%. These findings demonstrate the high intensity of the substrate flow from the microflora to the host. This might become important under conditions of marginal food protein intake or during periods of accelerated growth. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1496119/
Abstract: This paper highlights various issues in relation to the workload of women in developing countries and its impact on health and nutritional status. The determining factors in women's workload and work-time and the methods employed for assessment are described. The drawbacks of the methods used and the resulting inconsistencies in the data are reviewed. How women are subjected to different health stresses owing to their productive and reproductive roles has been examined under three categories of work: economic, domestic and agricultural. The interaction of women's workload and health is complex and multifactorial owing to variations in the environment and socio-economic conditions within developing countries. There is a critical need to re-examine the assumptions existing about women's workload in programmes aimed at reducing work-time and workload of women in developing countries. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1496239/
Abstract: The treatment of children with type I insulin dependent diabetes mellitus has been improved by the combination of multi-daily self blood glucose monitoring and insulin injections. Specific aspects of therapy in neonatal diabetes, as well as in infants, are discussed. Non insulin dependent diabetes is rarely observed in pediatric ages and is generally treated with simple diet control. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1496183/
Abstract: In 37 intravenous drug users (IVDUs) in the first stages of HIV-infection (17 in stage II and 20 in stage III according to CDC), compared with 32 IVDUs HIV-negatives, we found a significant decrease in circulating leucocytes (p less than 0.01), lymphocytes (p less than 0.005), platelets (p less than 0.005), serum albumin (p less than 0.005), and C3 (p less than 0.02) and significant increase in serum gammaglobulins (p less than 0.0005) and IgG (p less than 0.0005). On the other hand no difference was observed in hemoglobin and in IgA levels; nevertheless an inverse relationship between serum IgA and CD4+ lymphocytes was present in HIV-positive (HIV+) patients (r = -0.34; p = 0.04). This observation agrees with that is observed in the advanced stages of HIV-infection, which presents an increase in IgA serum levels. In these stages this fact could be due to a decrease of secretory IgA, with a deficient barrier effect; the consequent recirculation of intestinal antigens should enhance the antibody production, as well as serum IgA. In the IVDUs HIV-infected a reverse correlation between albumin serum levels and the length of HIV-positivity (r = -0.44; p = 0.008) and a direct correlation between albumin serum levels and circulating CD4+ lymphocytes (r = 0.37; p = 0.05) were present. There was no direct linear relationship between albumin serum levels and creatinine, on the contrary to what was observed in the control group. The decrease of albumin levels could have a prognostic value as in other clinical conditions, in which it is associated with a higher mortality risk. Many factors could act to decrease albumin levels, but the most important one is perhaps the malnutrition of HIV-infected patients that can also be present in the first stages of infection, negatively influencing the associated immunodeficiency. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1496340/
Abstract: Bone mineral density (BMD) was measured by dual photon absorptiometry in the lumbar spine, femoral neck and midfemoral shaft in 209 women and 165 men aged 20 to 98 years recruited among the Geneva population. The prevalence of various factors (life style, calcium intake, body weight) which may be associated with a higher risk of osteoporosis was evaluated. Between the different skeletal sites, BMD was closely correlated. Nevertheless, BMD at one site failed to accurately predict BMD of another site. In each age class, BMD was dispersed over a wide range. Women and men had similar lumbar spine BMD. In women, BMD decreased after the fifth decade by 1.3, 1.0 and 2.6% year in the lumbar spine and femoral neck and shaft, respectively. Daily calcium intake from dairy products was 430 g and 750 g in women and men, respectively. Femoral shaft BMD was positively correlated with calcium intake. These BMD values obtained in a sample of the normal Geneva population should be of major help for the diagnosis of osteoporosis. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1496237/
Abstract: Non insulin-dependent diabetes is often associated with obesity and always with some degree of insulin resistance. First choice treatment consists of appropriate and sometimes hypocaloric diet and oral hypoglycemic agents. Using insulin becomes mandatory in patients with associated pathology or at risk of metabolic imbalance. Insulin administration must be discussed in each individual case when it aims at a long-term improvement of blood glucose control, taking into account the lack of consensus on this point and the potential drawbacks of insulin therapy, notably weight increase and risk of hypoglycaemia. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1496236/
Abstract: Non insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus requires a metabolic and vascular treatment in order to prevent macroangiopathy. Personal diet management, which is similar in diabetic and non diabetic comparable patients, is the basis of therapy. Any significant result cannot be expected without its observance. Sulfonylurea and biguanide drugs can enhance diet action and must be prescribed secondarily according to the level of hyperglycaemia. Blood pressure and lipid control is as important as glycaemic normalization. Early diet management of obese people should be the best approach to prevent type II diabetes. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1506810/
Abstract: We studied the effect of sleeping in the head-up tilt (HUT) position, alone and in combination with fludrocortisone, on orthostatic tolerance and blood pressure (BP) in six patients with hypoadrenergic orthostatic hypotension. A high salt diet of 150-200 mmol Na+ d-1 was also administered. Combined treatment reduced orthostatic dizziness in all patients (P less than 0.001), and increased the maximal standing period to at least 10 min. HUT alone (n = 4) reduced the BP decrease after 1 min of standing from -64/-42/-25 +/- 29/21/17 mmHg to -53/-37/-23 +/- 31/24/20 mmHg (P less than 0.01 for systolic BP). Addition of fludrocortisone to HUT (HUT/fludro) (n = 5) further reduced the BP decrease after 1 min of standing from -63/-40/-24 +/- 20/12/11 mmHg to -21/-19/-8 +/- 12/10/5 mmHg (P less than 0.05 for systolic, mean and diastolic BP, respectively). BP at maximal standing time increased from 58/47/42 +/- 9/8/7 mmHg initially to 95/69/57 +/- 27/22/20 mmHg during combined treatment (P less than 0.05 for systolic and mean BP), and remained unchanged during the 14-month (range 8-70 month) follow-up period. Nocturnal sodium excretion decreased from 8.0 +/- 2.3 mmol h-1 to 5.9 +/- 1.9 mmol h-1 with combined treatment; body weight increased by 1.6 kg on average (range 0.5-2.4 kg) (P less than 0.01). We conclude that the combination of HUT and fludrocortisone effectively minimizes orthostatic symptoms and increases orthostatic BP in patients with hypo-adrenergic orthostatic hypotension. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1506918/
Abstract: To clarify the relationship between the pattern of diet intake and circadian rhythm in man, we measured body temperature and urinary excretions at 4-h intervals over a 24-h period in 18 patients who were in vegetative states and had been receiving total enteral nutrition (TEN) for at least 4 weeks. One group of patients was given a liquid diet intraduodenally and continuously throughout a day (continuous TEN), whereas the two other groups received their daily enteral feeding during a restricted time of day, either in the daytime from 0800 h to 2000 h (diurnal TEN) or in the nighttime from 2000 h to 0800 h (nocturnal TEN). In the diurnal TEN group, there was a clear body temperature rhythm with a peak at 2000 h, whose pattern was similar to the well-established body temperature rhythm in normal subjects. The nocturnal TEN group also showed a temperature rhythm, but the peak appeared at 0400 h. The continuous TEN group did not show any consistent body temperature rhythms. These effects of the schedule of TEN were quite similar to those on the circadian cortisol rhythm reported previously (J. Nutr. Sci. Vitaminol., 35, 639-647, 1989). In contrast to the body temperature rhythm, the rhythm of urinary excretions of water, sodium and potassium was little influenced by the schedule of TEN, showing a normal pattern with more excretions during the daytime in every group. Essentially the same effects were confirmed in a patient who received the three schedules of TEN in rotation for 5 weeks of each schedule.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS) 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1506874/
Abstract: Protein-energy malnutrition (PEM), a natural ramification of poverty, continues to be a perennial source of concern to a large segment of the world population. The developing nervous system of a child is specially vulnerable to deprivations in nurture. Peripheral nerve and muscle derangements are clinically evident by weakness, hypotonia and hyporeflexia in accordance with severity and duration of PEM. Motor and sensory nerve conduction studies exhibit significant abnormalities and often furnish useful and ominous correlation with grades of PEM. The human sural nerve histology in cases of severe PEM is characterized by persistence of small myelinated fibres, striking failure of internodal elongation and significant segmental demyelination. Young rhesus monkeys are ideal experimental PEM models and they show myopathic EMG changes amenable to rehabilitation. Muscle pathology comprises obliteration of cross-striations, streaming of Z bands, increased interfibrillary spaces, mitochondriomegaly and small-for-age fibres. Radioisotope assays reveal anomalous incorporation into various nerve and muscle constituents. Central nervous system, specially the neuropsychological functions are affected in a lasting manner. Learning deficits, behavioural problems and manual indexterity are most obtrusive features. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1506921/
Abstract: Patients with Duchenne muscular dystrophy are so malnourished that energy supplementation is crucial. Their degree of energy deficiency was assessed as difference between their energy intake and their energy allowance, which were deduced from easily measured parameters. A significant, negative relationship was found between the basal metabolic rate (BMR) (Y, %, BMR/standard BMR) and body weight (X, %, body weight/standard body weight) in the patients, from which the formula for the BMR was deduced to be Y = -1.116X + 174.5 (n = 202, r = -0.72, p less than 0.001). Thus, it is possible to estimate the energy allowance for individual patients by a factorial procedure from the presumed BMR and a factor for physical activity. In addition, their energy intake was calculated from a constant protein-energy % (14.6%) in their diet and nitrogen intake which was deduced from a significant positive correlation between their nitrogen intake (Y, mg/kg/day) and their nitrogen excretion in 24 h urine samples (X, mg/kg/day). This correlation conformed to the equation Y = 1.053X + 32.4 (n = 267, r = +0.76, p less than 0.001). The validities of the above predictions for energy intake and allowance were examined by plotting the degree of energy deficiency (% ratio of presumed intake/presumed allowance) against the concentrations of retinal binding protein, prealbumin and transferrin in the serum, because rapid turnover proteins are sensitive to energy deficiency. Significant positive correlations were obtained with both variables, suggesting that these predictions were valid. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1506924/
Abstract: The effects of milk and skim milk intake on serum lipids, apoprotein levels and fatty acid composition were investigated in postmenopausal females. After a 25-day intake of 200 ml/day of whole milk, the milk group had increased HDL and LDL cholesterol levels, with a slight decrease in the proportion of 18:0 fatty acids in the phospholipid fraction. The skim milk group, which had consumed 20 g/day of skim milk for 25 days, showed no changes. After intake of 400 ml/day of whole milk for 29 days, LDL, HDL and total cholesterol concentrations were even more increased and the VLDL-phospholipid concentration was decreased, with significant increases in apoA-I, apoA-II and apoB concentrations. In the skim milk group, consuming 40 g of skim milk per day for 29 days, total cholesterol, atherogenic index, HDL-triglyceride concentrations were decreased and HDL-phospholipid, apoA-I and apoA-II concentrations were increased. Daily skim milk consumption, which is effective in preventing osteoporosis, and careful selection of foods should be recommended for Japanese postmenopausal women who consume more than 200 ml/day of whole milk. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1506940/
Abstract: An intervention study of cashiers at a large grocery store was begun in response to employee symptoms of musculoskeletal discomfort, primarily shoulder, neck, and upper back pain, after introduction of a new express checkstand. The grocery company then instituted workplace changes directed at reducing stressful postures and the discomfort in the anatomical sites of primary concern. These changes were placement of a physical barrier to reduce trunk flexion from overreaching, installation of an adjustable keyboard to reduce static shoulder stress, and education of employees about good workplace practices to reduce musculoskeletal stress and fatigue. There was a statistically significant reduction in neck, upper back, or shoulder discomfort but not arm, forearm, or wrist discomfort. There was also a significant reduction in employee use of medication and days to recovery from discomfort but not in overall number of employees with symptoms or in hours able to operate the checkstand without discomfort. We found that ergonomic interventions, directed to the anatomical site of greatest employee concern, are likely to be effective, that employees were a good source of information on the ergonomic problems and solutions in their workplace, but that the overall approach must be iterative to achieve the maximum effect. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1506923/
Abstract: Anthropometric data, nutrient intake data, and blood biochemical parameters were analyzed for 66 elementary school children living in Tokyo, Japan, and their nutritional status was evaluated focusing on three problems: (1) zinc nutriture and growth, (2) anemia with iron deficiency, and (3) lipid nutriture and obesity. The subjects' mean energy and protein intakes met the recommended levels for Japanese children. However, their zinc intake levels were inadequate at 7.2, 8.3, and 8.5 mg in grades 2 (mean age: 8 yr), 4 (10 yr), and 6 (12 yr), respectively. Mean serum zinc concentration was 0.82 +/- 0.15 microgram/ml; the percentages of subjects who showed serum zinc concentration lower than 0.68 microgram/ml, the lower limit of the normal serum zinc concentration, were 28.6, 15.4, and 5.0% in grades 2, 4, and 6, respectively. These serum zinc concentrations indicated the existence of marginal zinc deficiency in some children, particularly in grade 2, though it was not severe enough to retard growth. Their iron intake levels (8.2, 10.2, and 10.2 mg for grades 2, 4, and 6, respectively) in combination with the proportion of iron intake from animal foods (37%) were judged to be adequate because no children showed serum ferritin, serum iron, or transferrin saturation levels lower than the criteria levels recommended for iron deficiency. Moreover, no definitely anemic children were found. Daily lipid intakes were 65.7, 74.5, and 78.3 g in grades 2, 4, and 6, respectively, and the mean percentage of energy intake from lipid to total energy intake, 32%, exceeded the level recommended. Mean serum total cholesterol concentrations and the percentage of subjects with elevated cholesterol levels (greater than or equal to 200 mg/dl) were high compared with the reported values. Means of the body mass index (BMI) and Rohrer Index (RI) for the subjects were slightly higher than Japanese standards. With these parameters for obesity, triglycerides and atherogenic index were positively correlated and HDL cholesterol and HDL cholesterol percentage to total cholesterol were negatively correlated. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1506920/
Abstract: Studies were made on whether body weight loss in patients with muscular dystrophy is due to reduced intake and/or abnormal expenditure of energy. For this, food intakes and various physiological variables were surveyed in totals of 310 patients with Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) of 11 to 29 years old and 28 patients with limb-girdle muscular dystrophy (LGMD) of 30 to 47 years old. Energy and protein intakes, expressed on a unit body weight basis, in DMD patients were comparable to, or higher than the allowances for age-matched healthy controls, whereas those in LGMD patients were 92 and 94% respectively of these allowances. The basal metabolic rate (BMR), expressed as kcal/kg/day, of DMD patients of all ages was higher than that of controls, the difference increasing with age, and being about 20 to 30% higher than that of controls in older patients with DMD. The BMR of LGMD patients was nearly normal. The maintenance requirements of conventional dietary protein in DMD and LGMD patients were 1.26 and 0.84 g/kg/day, respectively. These values were about 68 and 12% higher than the normal adult value (0.75 g/kg/day), indicating decreased protein utilization and increased protein catabolism. Daily excretion of urinary 3-methylhistidine (3MH) per unit muscle mass (micrograms/mg creatinine) by MD patients was significantly higher than that by controls, indicating increased degradation of muscle protein. The BMR, maintenance protein requirement and 3MH excretion of DMD patients suggest that DMD is a hypercatabolic disease. Comparison of the energy and protein intakes with the allowances estimated in consideration of increased requirements showed deficiencies of energy and protein in DMD patients. Thus, we conclude that the underweight of the DMD patients resulted from nutrient deficiencies due to hypercatabolism, despite their considerably high intakes of energy and protein, expressed as per kg body weight. These deficiencies were confirmed by demonstrating decreased concentrations of free essential amino acids, particularly branched chain amino acids, in their serum. The values of variables of LGMD patients were intermediate between those of DMD patients and control subjects. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1506966/
Abstract: Four health outcomes (range of motion, pain, diet, and disability) were measured in six diagnostic categories (internal derangement with closed lock, internal derangement with painful click, osteoarthritis, hypermobility, fibrous ankylosis, and arthralgia) in a 6-year retrospective multicenter study of 4,831 temporomandibular joints having undergone arthroscopic surgery. After arthroscopic surgery, 91.6% of all patients had good or excellent motion; 91.3% had good or excellent pain reduction; 90.6% had good or excellent ability to maintain a normal diet; and 92% had a good or excellent reduction in disability. These health outcomes compare favorably with all other known treatments for these conditions. Also, the surgical technique was relatively free of complications (4.4%). 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1507070/
Abstract: This article comments on a recent article by Heatherton, Herman, and Polivy (1991) in which they suggest that ego threats are a prerequisite to affectively induced disinhibition of food intake in restrained eaters and current dieters. In contrast, the present review suggests that mood induction procedures that involve no apparent threat (e.g., viewing a frightening film) can also prompt disinhibition in restrained eaters. Thus, any mood induction procedure that does not directly physically threaten the S may disinhibit restrained eaters. It is concluded that recommendations to focus future research on ego threats are premature and may serve to obscure the mechanisms by which changes in affective state influence food intake in dieters. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1507072/
Abstract: Esophageal cancer has a known high incidence in areas adjacent to the Caspian Sea and in northeastern Turkey. This study compares the incidence of esophageal cancer in Bursa (northwestern Turkey) with an age-matched control population. Factors associated with esophageal cancer and significantly at variance with controls include: age over 70, low income, smoking more than one pack of cigarettes per day, and low vegetable and fresh fruit intake. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1507302/
Abstract: Cystic fibrosis (CF) is the most common fatal genetic disease in childhood. The high infant mortality rate in Jordan and many other developing countries is mostly due to an increased prevalence of malnutrition, diarrhoeal diseases, and chest infections, which are also recognized clinical features of CF. Reports of CF among Arabs in neighbouring countries have stimulated clinical studies to evaluate the prevalence and incidence of this disease among Jordanian children. In a prospective study, 7682 neonates from 10 different hospitals in Jordan were screened for CF using the BM test for meconium albumin. Four cases gave a positive reaction to BM test strips. Cystic fibrosis was confirmed in three by sweat chloride test using pilocarpine iontophoresis. This represents an incidence of 1:2560 live births. In spite of the recognized limitations for the use of the BM test on meconium for mass screening of CF, this study has contributed to the increased awareness of the occurrence of CF among Jordanian children. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1507267/
Abstract: Sport or subsistence fishermen sometimes underestimate the risks from eating local fish and distrust authorities regarding potential hazards from fish. We report on lead, cadmium, selenium, and mercury levels in snook, locally called robalo (Centropomus spp.), consumed by local fishermen in Puerto Rico, who ate up to 23 fish/wk. Median levels (in ppb, dry weight) for muscle, adipose, and liver ranged from 683 to 780 for lead, 37 to 600 for cadmium, 50 to 146 for mercury, and 361 to 3986 for selenium. Lead levels were similar in all tissues, and selenium and cadmium levels were highest in the liver. Mercury was higher in muscle than in liver. Computing exposure via ingestion for the average fisherman indicated that if one were to consume robalo throughout the year one would be exposed in excess of the EPA Reference Dose (RfD) for mercury. Using a widely accepted maximum consumption of 200 g/d for fishermen yielded hazard indices (daily consumption/RfD) below 1 for all four metals, with a value approaching 1 for mercury in adults, and over 1 for 16-kg children. The possibility that in certain localities and cultures sport or subsistence fishermen may consume fish at levels substantially above 200 g/d should be investigated in performing risk assessments, particularly outside the continental United States. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1507319/
Abstract: Patients treated by extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy (ESWL) are usually evaluated by excretory urography within 1 month after treatment to determine the clearance of stone debris and rule out asymptomatic obstruction. In an attempt to obtain more precise functional information, we used 99mtechnetium-diethylenetriaminepentaacetic acid and 131iodine-hippurate radionuclide renal imaging studies, and a plain abdominal radiograph as the initial followup study after ESWL of 64 kidneys in 55 patients. Of 53 kidneys studied within 60 days after ESWL 42 had abnormal radionuclide renal imaging studies demonstrating pelviocaliceal stasis, excretory delay or poor function, 8 of which required subsequent interventions for obstructing stone debris. Five patients had excretory delay after ESWL that was unexpected based on a pre-ESWL excretory urogram showing normal function without dilation. A subset of 23 patients with large stone burden or anatomical deformity from a prior operation had baseline radionuclide renal imaging studies before ESWL; function improved in 4 and worsened in 5 by radionuclide renal imaging studies after completion of treatment. A total of 19 patients had radionuclide renal imaging studies earlier (within 17 days) after ESWL because of poor function and/or large stone burden, and as expected they had evidence of obstruction from stone debris, which necessitated further followup. Our experience suggests that followup of ESWL by radionuclide renal imaging studies provides specific functional information that is of particular value in the management of patients with obstructing stone debris and/or diminished renal function. Radionuclide renal imaging studies may also reveal unsuspected obstruction or functional impairment after ESWL of uncomplicated stones, and is recommended as routine followup after ESWL. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1507309/
Abstract: The relationship between certain host-related variables and the short-term outcome of hospitalization for severe acute lower respiratory infections was studied prospectively in a cohort of 103 pre-school Nigerian children. The respective mean ages of those with bronchiolitis and croup were 3.2 months and 18.9 months while the corresponding M:F ratios were 2.5:1 and 1:1. It was highly significant that all the eight children that died were malnourished (P less than 0.01). Furthermore, malnourished subjects with pleural effusion, in whom bacteraemia was common, stayed longest in hospital while subjects with bronchiolitis and croup, in whom malnutrition was distinctly uncommon, had the shortest duration of admission. Multiple microbial identifications and bacteraemia were common in malnourished subjects with ALRI. Mortality was significantly higher in older children (P less than 0.05), but sex, immunization/breast-feeding status and co-existing measles or pertussis, were individually neither related to the admission outcome nor the duration. It is concluded that malnutrition is a strong predictor of ALRI-related death in the pre-school child. The significance of bacteraemia and multiple microbial identifications in malnourished children, and the ARI-control implications of the study are discussed. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1507721/
Abstract: Bone scintigraphy of metastatic lesion on 128 patients with prostatic cancer were classified according to the proposal by Soloway et al (Cancer, 61; 195-202, 1988). Since all patients received endocrine therapy, the response to therapy and survival were examined in relation to bone lesion. In extent of disease (EOD) 1, main metastatic lesions were located in the pelvis, lumbar spine, and with increasing number of EOD, metastases in the upper spine, rib, and skull appeared. Longer survival were noticed in EOD 1, followed by EOD 2 and EOD 3, and EOD 4 revealed the shortest survival. The survival of EOD 2 was similar to thus of EOD 3. However, when grades of tumor were considered, moderately differentiated cancer showed longer survival than poorly differentiated cancer in EOD 2 and EOD 3. The response as assessed by bone scintigraphy following 6-month therapy was well correlated with the number of EOD. When individual items for evaluation of response were examined, the results of local response of the prostate and values of PAP showed good correlation with survivals, however, that of bone lesions with bone scintigraphy failed to show such a correlation with prognosis. Therefore, it is concluded that the therapeutic evaluation of bone lesions with bone scintigraphy is difficult to interpret 6 months after initiation of treatment. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1507909/
Abstract: Background:
        
      
      Ultraviolet B radiation decidedly influences the synthesis of vitamin D and therefore mineral and bone metabolism. It must also be taken into account that a normal unsupplemented diet is usually deficient in this vitamin. Two groups of subjects pertaining to the Spanish Antarctic Expedition 1988-1989 were studied to determine whether special conditions of irradiation and solar exposure found in Antarctica induce alterations in the abovementioned metabolism. Methods:
        
      
      Each group consisted of 11 healthy males with ingestion of less than 500 mg/day of calcium. The second group was administered vitamin D3 supplements of 1,000 UI/day. Two blood samples were performed at an interval of 22 days during the Antarctic summer to determine calcium, phosphorus, magnesium, parathormone (PTH) and 25-hydroxycholecalciferol [25(OH)D]. Results:
        
      
      Neither group varied in calcemia, phosphoremia or magnesemia. In the first group the 25(OH)D decreased markedly (p less than 0.01) with no variations being observed in PTH. In the supplemented group, and insignificant increase of 25(OH)D was observed which was significant enough to cause a marked decrease in PTH (p less than 0.01). Conclusions:
        
      
      Subjects passing periods of time in Antarctica should receive vitamin D3 supplementation at doses less than 1,000 UI/day. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1508060/
Abstract: Forty-five healthy postmenopausal women participated in a study designed to examine the effects on bone and mineral metabolism of SHD 386L, a new hormone replacement therapy (HRT) regime. This oral preparation delivers 2 mg estradiol valerate daily and 75 micrograms of levonorgestrel from days 17-28 inclusive of a 28-day cycle. The study was double-blind, randomized and placebo controlled. Patients who received SHD 386L exhibited significant falls in plasma calcium, ionised calcium, phosphate and total alkaline phosphatase. No alteration, however, was observed in plasma osteocalcin. No significant changes in mineral metabolism were observed in a parallel group receiving levonorgestrel alone. The results indicate that SHD 386L is likely to be protective to the skeleton through inhibition of bone resorption and that such actions are attributable to the estrogen component. The preparation was well tolerated, compliance was satisfactory and serious adverse affects were not seen. The above biochemical evidence for skeletal protection will require to be supplemented by prospective biophysical evidence of the effect of SHD 386L on bone mineral density. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1517141/
Abstract: Feeding commercial enteral diets to critically ill dogs and cats via nasogastric tubes was an appropriate means for providing nutritional support and was associated with few complications. Twenty-six cats and 25 dogs in the intensive care unit of our teaching hospital were evaluated for malnutrition and identified as candidates for nutritional support via nasogastric tube. Four commercial liquid formula diets and one protein supplement designed for use in human beings were fed to the dogs and cats. Outcome variables used to assess efficacy and safety of nutritional support were return to voluntary food intake, maintenance of body weight to within 10% of admission weight, and complications associated with feeding liquid diets. Sixty-three percent of animals experienced no complications with enteral feedings; resumption of food intake began for most animals (52%) while they were still in the hospital. Weight was maintained in 61% of the animals (16 of 26 cats and 15 of 25 dogs). Complications that did occur included vomiting, diarrhea, and inadvertent tube removal. Most problems were resolved by changing the diet or adhering to the recommended feeding protocol. Nutritional support as a component of therapy in small animals often is initiated late in the course of the disease when animals have not recovered as quickly as expected. If begun before the animal becomes nutrient depleted, enteral feeding may better support the animal and avoid serious complications. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1517064/
Abstract: For several years polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs) and in particular essential fatty acids (EFAs) have been proposed for the treatment of multiple sclerosis (MS). There are contrasting data in literature regarding the effects of the n-6 and the n-3 PUFA series on different aspects of the disease, in particular on the frequency and severity of relapses and platelet function. This can be ascribed to the different criteria of patient selection in relation to the form and severity of disease at the beginning of the various studies. Till now authors have tended to consider the effect of PUFA supplementation only on some clinical aspects of the disease. Modification in the more sensitive indices (immunological or biochemical) of the disease activity should be taken into account and also the influence of dietary lipid intake by patients in relation to n-3 or n-6 EFA supplementation. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1517288/
Abstract: A stereoselective and highly sensitive method using chiral chromatography and successive column-switching liquid chromatography is described for the determination of manidipine enantiomers in human serum. A human serum sample obtained after ingestion of manidipine was extracted twice with a mixture of n-hexane-diethyl ether under alkaline conditions. The enantiomers in the extract were separated on a chiral stationary phase column (Chiralcel OJ), and the effluents containing the respective enantiomers were collected. Each fraction was then analysed by column-switching liquid chromatography. The proposed stereoselective method offered high sensitivity: detection limits for both isomers were 0.2 ng/ml in human serum, both at a signal-to-noise ratio of 3. The method is suitable for the pharmacokinetic studies of manidipine enantiomers. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1517032/
Abstract: The possible causes and consequences of hypervitaminosis A and retinol binding protein (RBP) levels were investigated in patients with chronic renal disease submitted or not to dialysis treatment. The study was conducted on 20 patients divided into two groups: 10 patients with chronic renal failure (CRF) treated by continuous ambulatorial peritoneal dialysis (CAPD), and 10 CRF patients with no dialysis treatment. Ten normal subjects formed the control group. Retinol levels were determined by HPLC, and RBP levels by immunoassay in plasma and in post-dialysis fluid at different periods of time. Laboratory tests were carried out on all subjects, and dietary history was taken. Patients on dialysis had higher retinol levels than untreated patients. Retinol levels were found to be correlated with RBP levels. Serum retinol and RBP levels did not vary with diet, age or time of disease, dialysis group or time of dialysis, nor were they correlated with the levels measured in the dialysis fluid (CAPD). There was no significant correlation in retinol levels between chronic patients and controls. It is suggested that vitamin A and RBP clearances during dialysis do not accompany urea or creatinine clearance. Hypervitaminosis A did not show any toxic effect. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1517172/
Abstract: Twenty-one stool specimens obtained from persons implicated in two food poisoning outbreaks at the same institution in Smith Falls, Ontario, were examined for Clostridium perfringens. Ninety-two colonies of Cl. perfringens (3-5 per stool specimen) were typed with antisera, bacteriocins and by plasmid analysis. They were also tested for the in vitro production of bacteriocin and enterotoxin. Sixteen of the 21 stool specimens were tested directly for enterotoxin. This was detected in 13, five of which were from individuals listed as 'asymptomatic' food handlers. The predominant strain isolated from 15 of the 21 stool samples produced bacteriocin and enterotoxin in vitro, contained no plasmids, and was of a common bacteriocin type and serotype. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1517042/
Abstract: The relationship among the fatty acid (FA) composition of plasma cholesteryl esters (CE), plasma phospholipids (PL), total erythrocyte lipids, erythrocyte phosphatidylethanolamine (PE), erythrocyte phosphatidylcholine (PC), and total lipids of the subcutaneous fat (SCF) was investigated by parallel analyses of samples from 47 normally nourished German adults. Each lipid fraction revealed a characteristic FA pattern. A close relation between major FA in plasma lipids, especially in CE, and those in PC was found. The FA composition of PE, however, appeared to be more independent from plasma values. Of all FA in SCF only linoleic acid values showed a correlation to the values in CE and PC. It is concluded that, in clinical studies, FA analyses of total plasma lipids or total erythrocyte lipids fractions should be avoided in favour of separate analyses of various lipid fractions. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1517126/
Abstract: A cross-sectional epidemiologic study was conducted to evaluate two objectives. The first was to determine the knowledge, attitudes, and behaviors of large animal (dairy) veterinarians, dairy farmers, and dairy processors in Michigan toward the use of bovine somatotropin (BST). The second was to compare and contrast the data from the large animal veterinarians, dairy farmers, and dairy processors according to the knowledge, attitude, and behavior variables. A written questionnaire was used as an instrument to collect data relating to the objectives. Three basic types of questions were asked of each group: (1) how much do you know about BST? (knowledge-based question), (2) how do you feel about BST? (attitude-based question), and (3) how would you use BST or use dairy products produced through BST biotechnology (behavior-based question)? 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1517302/
Abstract: A sensitive gas chromatographic-negative-ion chemical ionization mass spectrometric (GC-NCI-MS) method was developed to measure levels of the chlorpyrifos metabolite 3,5,6-trichloropyridinol (3,5,6-TCP) in human urine. The metabolic 3,5,6-TCP was isolated from urine by acid hydrolysis of urine aliquots, followed by diethyl ether extraction. The residues of ether extraction were taken up in o-xylene and derivatized with N-(tert.-butyldimethylsilyl)-N-methyltrifluoroacetamide (overall five-fold concentration). The structural isomer 3,4,5-trichloropyridinol was used as an internal standard in this analysis. This method was found to be linear for the determination of 3,5,6-TCP over the range 0.8-792 ng/ml. The limit of detection for 3,5,6-TCP in human urine was estimated to be 0.5 ng/ml. Low levels of 3,5,6-TCP (1-18 ng/ml of urine) were identified in control human urine samples. Structural confirmation of the background 3,5,6-TCP was obtained via GC-NCIMS-MS analysis. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1517327/
Abstract: A high-performance affinity chromatographic system was constructed and shown to permit highly reproducible, rapid, automatic assays of serum glycated albumin (GA) by separation of albumin (Alb) on an anion-exchange column (Asahipak ES-502N) packed with a vinyl alcohol copolymer bearing diethylamino groups and consecutive separation of GA on a column packed with a vinyl alcohol copolymer bearing boronate groups. The first column selectively retained Alb free of other serum proteins and permitted at least a 95% recovery of sample Alb. The purity of the Alb peak was confirmed by two-dimensional electrophoresis. Chromatographic analyses of human serum Alb incubated with glucose on the second column showed that the peak area for GA increased in accordance with the incubation time and suggested selective adsorption of GA on the second column. Optimization of the conditions for the two-column system reduced the analysis time to 10 min. Analyses of human sera with the present system showed GA to be 16.1 +/- 1.1% (mean +/- S.D.) of total Alb in non-diabetic children and 39.9 +/- 9.1% (mean +/- S.D.) in diabetic children (0-17 years old). 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1517364/
Abstract: Acute cold stress is a consistent stimulus to ACTH secretion in rats yet inhibits arginine vasopressin (AVP) in both rats and humans. We have studied the interrelationships of AVP, corticotrophin-releasing factor, and atrial natriuretic factor (ANF) in the hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenal response to acute cold stress in normal humans. Six healthy male volunteers deprived of food and fluid for 6 h, and minimally clothed, were studied in the early afternoon. After a 30-min period at 22 C, subjects were exposed to cold stress (4 C for 30 min), followed by a 30-min equilibration period at 22 C. By the end of the period of cold exposure there was a fall in plasma volume of 7.8 +/- 1.4% (mean +/- SEM), a significant increase in both systolic blood pressure (P = 0.0001) and in plasma norepinephrine level (P = 0.0001), but no change in plasma epinephrine or in plasma ANF. Plasma AVP levels fell significantly (P less than 0.01) to reach a nadir at 5-10 min after cold exposure before returning to baseline levels. A significant fall in plasma cortisol levels occurred during the first 15 min of the baseline period and remained stable thereafter. No significant changes in plasma corticotrophin-releasing factor or ACTH occurred. These results suggest that cold inhibition of AVP release, presumably via afferent baroreceptor pathways, may act to reduce the response of the corticotrophs to a potentially noxious stimulus. Inhibition of AVP and/or ACTH during acute cold exposure are not dependent upon an increase in plasma ANF. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1517388/
Abstract: The effects of suboptimal nutrition on the spontaneous overnight GH secretion (SGHS) and the GH response to GHRH were studied. Sixteen patients with nonorganic nutritional dwarfing (ND) were compared with 25 healthy short children with familial short stature with or without constitutional growth delay (FC). The effects of puberty were also assessed. All patients underwent an overnight study to assess SGHS with serum GH levels sampled every 20 min for 12 h, and a GHRH stimulation test was administered. Pubertal ND children had a blunted SGHS with a mean overnight GH level of 4.9 +/- 1.1 micrograms/L, significantly less than the level of 6.2 +/- 1.8 micrograms/L of the pubertal FC children (P less than 0.05). Also, prepubertal ND patients had an area under the curve in GH secretion after GHRH which was greater than that of the pubertal ND patients (2483 +/- 1581 vs. 1600 +/- 1056, P less than 0.05). The peak GH response to GHRH in the prepubertal ND patients was also higher than that of the pubertal ND patients (51.8 +/- 22.1 micrograms/L vs. 22.5 +/- 15.4 micrograms/L, P less than 0.05). This study shows that the SGHS is attenuated in ND patients during puberty but their GH response to GHRH is increased before adolescence. These abnormalities may represent compensatory mechanisms to energy restriction and may increase our understanding of the poor growth seen in ND patients. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1517685/
Abstract: Laboratory evidence of suboptimal iron status is endemic in chronically training athletes, yet the importance of low serum ferritin values to athletic performance is unclear. The purpose of this study was to monitor iron status in nine male elite swimmers during and after a 3-week training camp at 2225 m altitude. Values for hemoglobin, hematocrit, serum iron, serum transferrin, and transferrin saturation were within the normal range and remained unchanged over the 54-day monitoring period. Serum ferritin level was significantly decreased by day 13 and continued to decline over the period at altitude. Significant recovery was observed by day 35, by which the workload and altitude were reduced. Reticulocyte counts were raised above normal values by the fifth day at altitude and remained elevated for the duration of the study, indicating increased erythropoiesis. In contrast, neither ferritin levels nor reticulocyte counts were changed in six of the nine subjects after 1 month's training at 1000 m. Food histories revealed dietary iron intakes two to three times as great as the recommended dietary allowance for iron. The draw on body iron reserves observed in this study over the heavy training period at moderate altitude indicates that adequate iron stores are necessary to provide a reservoir of iron during periods of increased iron utilization or loss. Further work is required to elucidate the sources and endpoints of the observed iron flux. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1517545/
Abstract: Objective:
        
      
      Examination of suspended macroscopic debris that was noted in hospital cafeteria drinking water over a prolonged period of time. Setting:
        
      
      A tertiary care hospital. Design:
        
      
      A retrospective description of events. Methods:
        
      
      Conventional medical microbiology techniques were employed to determine if contamination of drinking water had occurred. Results:
        
      
      Microscopic examinations of the debris showed live nematodes similar to Strongyloides stercoralis rhabditiform larvae and amoebic trophozoites. A culture of an ice container in the cafeteria yielded coliform bacteria. Hospital employees lost work because of a diarrheal illness thought to be contracted from drinking cafeteria water. Further investigation revealed that the debris contained numerous ciliated organisms, nematodes, fresh water amoebae, bacterial mats, flagellated fungi, and unidentified cysts suggesting that the debris was of a freshwater origin rather than fecal contamination. Another hospital served by a collateral city water line experienced a similar problem. The debris was observed in November when lake water in the reservoir undergoes inversion. Conclusions:
        
      
      Nonpathogenic freshwater microbiota probably originating from the city reservoir were the cause of pseudocontamination of hospital drinking water. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1517614/
Abstract: A prospective, randomised case-control trial of an anorectic drug, fenfluramine was conducted on 30 patients of simple obesity. The study revealed that the drug was well tolerated, non-toxic and effective in reducing the body weight and normalising the thyroid profile. Reduction in body weight, rise in serum thyroxine (T4) and fall in serum triiodothyronine (T3) was highly significant (p less than 0.01) in drug treated group as compared to controls (p less than 0.05) after 12 weeks of therapy. There was also fall in serum thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH) levels but without any statistical significance. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1517669/
Abstract: The effect of early enteral nutrition on length of stay (LOS) in hospitalized surgical patients has been previously documented. In this study, a sample of a large medical population (stroke patients) was examined to determine if early enteral nutrition affected LOS. A retrospective review of the medical records of nonsurgical stroke patients receiving enteral nutrition, discharged between January 1, 1988 and January 31, 1991, was undertaken. Time to initiation of enteral feeding and LOS were recorded. In patients fed within 72 hours of admission (N = 20), LOS was 20.14 (SD 12.87) days. The LOS for patients fed later than 72 hours from the time of admission (N = 32) was 29.76 (SD 20.05) days. The difference between the groups in LOS was statistically significant (p = 0.036). Although further study is warranted, we concluded that early enteral nutrition may be a factor in shortening LOS in stroke patients. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1517370/
Abstract: Thyroid function was evaluated in cord serum of healthy full-term newborns and compared to that of mothers immediately after parturition. The study was carried out in an area without overt iodine deficiency, but with a marginal iodine supply (less than 100 micrograms/day in 80% of women). The aim of the study was to delineate the interrelationships between the thyroid statuses of mother and child at birth. Maternal thyroid function was characterized at delivery by relative hypothyroxinemia; increased T3/T4 ratios, indicating preferential T3 secretion; slightly increased TSH levels within the normal range in 97% of women; increased serum thyroglobulin (TG) values, which were above normal in 60% of women; and also goiter formation in almost 10% of women. The findings indicated glandular stimulation and confirmed our earlier reports that pregnancy constitutes a stress for the maternal thyroid economy, enhanced by the limited availability of iodine in the diet. By contrast, newborns showed a strikingly distinct pattern: there was no relative hypothyroxinemia and free T4 levels were significantly higher than in the respective mothers (19.4 vs. 14.7 pmol/L; P less than 0.001). In spite of these differences, however, mean neonatal TSH and TG levels were significantly higher than maternal values, respectively 6.0 vs. 1.9 mU/L for TSH (P less than 0.001) and 70 vs. 40 micrograms/L for TG (P less than 0.001). Furthermore, neonatal TG and TSH levels increased in parallel and were highly correlated with maternal data, suggesting a regulatory link between both thyroid economies. The results suggested that the common regulatory link is the limited availability of the iodine supply. In conclusion, the present study demonstrates that even in conditions with a marginally low iodine intake, pregnancy constitutes a stimulus for both the maternal and newborn thyroids. Changes in both groups are associated and the abnormalities in TSH and TG are amplified in the newborns. The TSH and TG alterations at birth in full-term healthy newborns, associated with similar alterations in maternal thyroid function, provide evidence for a common stimulatory factor, relative iodine deficiency. The data emphasize the hypersensitivity of neonatal thyroid function to marginal iodine deficiency and point to the need to increase the iodine supply in groups at risk, such as women during pregnancy, and also newborns in the perinatal period. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1517462/
Abstract: Aims:
        
      
      To determine the incidence of sporadic and apparently non-food related diarrhoea associated with Clostridium perfringens enterotoxin. Methods:
        
      
      Enzyme linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) and reversed phase latex agglutination (RPLA) were used to detect C perfringens enterotoxin in faecal specimens from 818 sporadic cases of diarrhoea. Results:
        
      
      C perfringens enterotoxin was identified as a cause of sporadic diarrhoea in 56 of 818 (6.8%) cases. Diarrhoea was prolonged (three days or more) in most cases. Ages ranged from 3 months to 89 years, although most patients were over 60 years of age. Conclusions:
        
      
      These results suggest that C perfringens may be a cause of sporadic cases of diarrhoea when causes such as food consumption or cross-infection are absent, particularly in the elderly. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1517870/
Abstract: Dentine hypersensitivity occurs when dentinal tubules are open on the dentine surface and patent to a vital pulp. There has been limited interest in the aetiology of dentine hypersensitivity. In particular, little is known about agents that remove the dentine smear layer to expose tubules. Toothbrushing certainly may expose dentine, but whether a toothbrush per se has the effect of opening tubules has not been established. The aim of this study in vitro was to determine whether a toothbrush could remove or create a smear layer. In addition, the combined effects of toothbrushing with dietary fluids on dentine was assessed. Toothbrushing was observed, by scanning electron microscopy, both to remove and to recreate a smear layer on dentine specimens. However, the processes took a considerable time, and under conditions of normal toothbrushing it is unlikely that the latter plays a direct aetiological role in opening tubules. Indeed, together with toothpaste it is more likely that brushing has a therapeutic action by mechanically forming a smear layer. Conversely, and importantly, toothbrushing in the presence of dietary acids enhanced smear layer removal. This finding raises the question of whether the dental profession should be advising that teeth be brushed before meals rather than after, as is often the case. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1517910/
Abstract: The purpose of this study was to determine whether cow milk-specific antibody responses correlated with the development of clinical tolerance in cow milk-allergic children. Double-blind, placebo-controlled food challenges were performed annually in 29 patients with cow milk allergy. Clinical reactivity was lost in 11 (38%) of 29 patients. The median age for all patients at the time of diagnosis by these food challenges was 3 years; more than 80% of patients in each group had atopic dermatitis as part of their presenting symptoms. Casein-specific and beta-lactoglobulin-specific IgE, IgG, IgG1, and IgG4 antibody concentrations were analyzed in all patients at regular intervals. In the patients becoming clinically tolerant to cow milk, the IgE-specific antibody concentrations and IgE/IgG-specific ratios for both milk proteins were lower initially and decreased significantly with time, in comparison with those in the group who retained clinical sensitivity. The concentrations of IgG1- and IgG4-specific antibody to casein and the IgE/IgG1 and IgE/IgG4 ratios for both casein and beta-lactoglobulin were significantly less in the patients losing clinical reactivity. No differences in the IgG-specific concentrations were observed in either group at any of the evaluation times noted above. Monitoring similar casein-specific and beta-lactoglobulin-specific IgE concentrations and IgE/IgG ratios may help predict which patients will ultimately lose their clinical reactivity to cow milk. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1517918/
Abstract: Breath hydrogen excretion was measured serially in breast-fed infants. There was marked variability in H2 excretion, both within and between infants. The findings indicate that unabsorbed food is not the only substrate, and that breath H2 may not be an effective method to assess carbohydrate absorption in young infants. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1517924/
Abstract: Study objective:
        
      
      To determine the effect of the type of dietary protein (3.3 gm/kg per day) on acid-base status, protein nutritional status, plasma amino acid concentrations, and nutrient (nitrogen, fat, mineral, trace element) balance. Subjects:
        
      
      Preterm infants (birth weight less than or equal to 1250 gm, gestational age less than or equal to 32 weeks) with no evidence of systemic disease, who had achieved a minimal enteral intake of 110 kcal/kg per day by 21 days of age. Interventions:
        
      
      Each infant was fed three study formulas that differed only with respect to the ratio of whey to casein (60:40, 35:65, 18:82). Each formula was given for 1 week. At the end each week, blood was drawn and a 48-hour balance was determined. Main results:
        
      
      Late metabolic acidosis, uremia, and hyperammonemia were not observed. No differences in pH or serum bicarbonate were noted. Base excess was greater with the casein-predominant formula (18:82 greater than 35:65, 60:40) but remained within normal limits for the preterm infant. Plasma concentrations of threonine (60:40 greater than 35:65 greater than 18:82), phenylalanine, and tyrosine (18:82 greater than 35:65 greater than 60:40) differed. Nitrogen absorption (60:40 less than 35:65, 18:82), nitrogen retention (60:40 less than 35:65, 18:82), fat absorption (60:40, 35:65 greater than 18:82), and phosphorus absorption (60:40 less than 35:65, 18:82) also differed. Conclusions:
        
      
      At an intake of 3.3 gm/kg per day, the type of dietary protein had little effect on metabolic status. Differences in plasma amino acid concentrations and nutrient balance suggest that a formula containing protein with a whey/casein ratio of 35:65 may be preferable to that with a whey/casein ratio of 60:40 or 18:82 for the very low birth weight infant. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1517921/
Abstract: We performed a randomized, double-blind, controlled trial to determine whether vitamin A supplementation in a group of very low birth weight infants would reduce the incidence of bronchopulmonary dysplasia. Forty-nine infants (birth weight 700 to 1100 gm) requiring mechanical ventilation and supplemental oxygen at 96 hours age were randomly assigned to receive either 2000 IU retinyl palmitate (n = 27) or saline placebo (n = 22) intramuscularly every other day for up to 14 doses. There were no differences between treatment groups in the incidences of bronchopulmonary dysplasia at 31 days of postnatal age (vitamin A group 48%, placebo group 55%; p = 0.776), supplemental oxygen requirement at 34 weeks of postconceptional age, or other complications of prematurity. The vitamin A group had higher mean plasma vitamin A concentrations than the placebo group, but mean plasma vitamin A concentrations were greater than 20 micrograms/dl (suggesting sufficiency) in both groups after the first study week. By study day 28, only one fourth of the infants in either group had plasma vitamin A concentrations less than 20 micrograms/dl. In contrast to an earlier report, we found no change in the incidence of BPD with vitamin A supplementation. Our findings may reflect a low baseline incidence of vitamin A deficiency in the study population and recent changes in the respiratory care of very low birth weight infants. The latter may have lessened the potential impact of vitamin A deficiency on lung disease. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1517948/
Abstract: Serum concentrations of primary bile acids (BAs) were determined in the course of celiac disease and in healthy age-matched controls. Determinations of BAs were made by radioimmunoassays after an overnight fasting and for 4 h postprandially after intake of a standardized test meal. In untreated celiac disease presenting with subtotal villous atrophy, peak concentrations of primary BAs were significantly delayed and serum levels were significantly higher than in controls. Small but significant abnormalities persisted after a period of gluten-free diet despite a normalization of mucosal morphology. Slightly pathological standard liver function tests in five patients were related to increased fasting levels but not to the postprandial pattern of BAs, indicating that the observed abnormalities postprandially were not related to liver disease. Further studies simultaneously focusing on deconjugation mechanisms, absorption, and pool sizes of BAs are required to explain the postprandial BA pattern under the course of celiac disease. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1517941/
Abstract: With utilization of the techniques discussed in this review, patients with short bowel syndrome can be expected to live prolonged lives, even after fairly massive resection. Advances in parenteral and home parenteral nutrition and changes in the long-term management of chronic complications have altered the lifestyles of patients with short bowel syndrome. Intestinal transplantation may become an effective mode of therapy within a short period of time. Many surgeons faced with the possibility of leaving a child with only 10-15 cm of bowel in the past have closed the abdomen with the dead bowel and let the child die. These recent advances raise interesting ethical dilemmas. Research into the process of intestinal adaptation as well as greater experience with intestinal transplantation and other modes of therapy may further improve prognosis. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1517950/
Abstract: Several recent studies have demonstrated significantly lower plasma total tryptophan concentrations in formula-fed than in breast-fed infants. We have measured preprandial plasma amino acid concentrations in infants breast-fed or fed a formula with a protein concentration of 1.57 g/dl and with a whey/casein ratio of 60:40 or a formula with a protein concentration of 1.37 g/dl and a whey/casein ratio of 40:60 and fortified with 10 mg/dl (15 mg/100 kcal) of tryptophan. Healthy term infants (10 per group) were either breast-fed from birth or randomly assigned to one of the two study formulas. At 4 and 12 weeks of age, anthropometric measurements were performed and blood samples were obtained. During the study period of 12 weeks, all infants showed normal growth (weight, length, and head circumference) and there were no statistically significant differences between the groups. The plasma concentrations of the essential amino acids phenylalanine, threonine, valine, and lysine were significantly lower in the breast-fed group than in both formula-fed groups. For tyrosine, methionine, leucine, histidine, isoleucine, and arginine, no significant differences could be found between the feeding groups. Concentration of total plasma tryptophan was significantly higher in the breast-fed group than in the group fed the tryptophan-unfortified formula, but no statistically significant difference could be found between the plasma tryptophan concentration in the breast-fed group versus the group fed the tryptophan-fortified formula. The results indicate that tryptophan fortification of adapted formula is necessary to achieve plasma total tryptophan concentrations similar to those found in breast-fed infants.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS) 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1530012/
Abstract: Objectives:
        
      
      The purpose of this study was to determine the incidence of diabetes in women with previous dietary-treated gestational diabetes mellitus and to identify predictive factors for development of diabetes. Study design:
        
      
      Two to 11 years post partum, glucose tolerance was investigated in 241 women with previous dietary-treated gestational diabetes mellitus and 57 women without previous gestational diabetes mellitus (control group). Results:
        
      
      Diabetes developed in 42 (17.4%) women with previous gestational diabetes mellitus (3.7% insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus and 13.7% non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus). Diabetes did not develop in any of the controls. Predictive factors for diabetes development were fasting glucose level at diagnosis (high glucose, high risk), preterm delivery, and an oral glucose tolerance test result that showed diabetes 2 months post partum. In a subgroup of previous patients with gestational diabetes mellitus in whom plasma insulin was measured during an oral glucose tolerance test in late pregnancy a low insulin response at diagnosis was found to be an independent predictive factor for diabetes development. Conclusions:
        
      
      Women with previous dietary-treated gestational diabetes mellitus have a considerably increased risk of later having diabetes. Follow-up investigations are therefore important, especially in those women with previous gestational diabetes mellitus in whom the identified predictive factors are present. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1529966/
Abstract: Regional blood centers recently increased the number of tests used to protect transfusion recipients from infectious disease. The Food and Drug Administration has noted that computer systems for managing these data have lost donor data or failed to recognize all deferrals. Of 118,396 consecutive donations, including 4,859 records with at least one positive test result, records were analyzed to determine the number and frequency of distinct combinations of test data. A modular precedence-logic expert system assigned donor deferrals and unit dispositions. Ten combinations of data accounted for 4,334 records (89%); the remaining 525 records (11%) were distributed among 85 combinations of test data. The expert system correctly assigned all records. Regional blood centers must interpret a growing number of test results, including donations with a complicated pattern of multiple positive screening test results. The distribution of these data is described and the expert system's ability to monitor deferrals and ensure database completeness is demonstrated. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1530338/
Abstract: Out of 79 cases dealt with reservoir, a response was obtained in 31% of 51 assessable cases. When assessed by cumulative survival with Kaplan-Meier method, the 50% survival was 8 months for total cases and prolonged to 21 months for responsive cases. However, eventually re-hospitalization was required for almost all cases. Although oral nutrition was impossible because of poor general condition, there were many patients who refused re-hospitalization and wished to continue treatment at home. In the present study, in 5 such cases the usefulness of home parenteral nutrition (HPN) combined with chemotherapy was determined. All the five patients in this study had gastric cancer with metastases and recurrent lesions in the liver or lymph node, or localized or with peritoneal spread. The site of the reservoir was within the artery in 4 cases and in the abdominal cavity in 1 case. The chemotherapy was multidrug-combination therapy consisting of 5-FU, MMC, CDDP and EPIR. In 4 cases local hyperthermia was added. In 3 out of the 5 cases (3 out of 7 lesions), a partial response (PR) was obtained. The mean dwelling period of the reservoir was 349.2 days for all cases, but longer than 400 days for 3 cases in which PR was obtained. For HPN, a catheter was inserted through the internal cervical vein, and 750-1,500 kcal/day was administered intermittently during night or constantly for 24 hours. In cases in which PR was obtained with chemotherapy and in those in which the reservoir for HPN was been in place before the terminal stage, the reservoir could be used for administration for a prolonged period. The mean dwelling period of the reservoir was 179.8 days and the duration of home stay was 121.2 days. All of the patients were classified as PS2 or higher and pronounced improvement in PS was obtained after HPN in only 1 case. Four out of the 5 patients were satisfied with receiving treatment at home. However, since HPN is associated with many problems such as sudden worsening in general condition, cancer pain and great burden to families, the solution to these problems remains. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1529939/
Abstract: This study was designed to test the efficacy of the administration of fruits and vegetables for 12 weeks as an adjunct to a prudent diet in decreasing blood lipids in 310 (intervention; group A) and 311 (control; group B) patients with risk factors of coronary artery disease (CAD) in a parallel, single-blind fashion. At entry to the study, sex, mean age, body weight, body mass index, systolic and diastolic blood pressures, and blood lipoproteins were comparable between both groups. Tasty fruits and vegetables were given to patients to eat before major meals for better nutrient adherence and adequacy. Dietary intakes were determined by questionnaires and by weighing of fruit and vegetable intake. Fruits and vegetables decreased total cholesterol level by 6.5% and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol level by 7.3% in group A, whereas the levels were unchanged in group B. The high-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels that decreased during the diet stabilization period in both groups, increased by 5.6% in group A after 12 weeks. Serum triglycerides also decreased (7%) more in group A than B. Fasting blood glucose decreased by 6.9% in group A and by 2.6% in group B. The combined effect of a fat-modified diet plus fruits and vegetables was greater than these changes. Because tasty fruits were taken by the patients before meals (when they are hungry) and are easily available at reasonable cost in our marketing and buying capacity, the compliance was excellent.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS) 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1529943/
Abstract: The impact of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) on renal function has not been evaluated in patients with congestive heart failure. Therefore, the renal effects of indomethacin were examined in patients with chronic heart failure, and the relation between the changes in glomerular filtration rate and renal plasma flow after indomethacin administration was assessed. Twenty-five patients with congestive heart failure and an ejection fraction less than 40% were evaluated. At baseline, renal plasma flow and glomerular filtration rate were measured, using disappearance from the serum of intravenously injected 131I-orthodihippurate and urinary accumulation of intravenously injected technetium-99m diethylenetriamine pentaacetic acid, respectively. After 3 days, 75 mg of sustained release indomethacin were administered, and repeat renal function tests were performed. Mean glomerular filtration rate decreased from 40 +/- 21 to 32 +/- 16 ml/min/1.73 m2 (p less than 0.05), and mean renal plasma flow decreased from 242 +/- 122 to 222 +/- 110 ml/min/1.73 m2 (p less than 0.05). There was no correlation between the changes in glomerular filtration rate and renal plasma flow after indomethacin administration. It is concluded that 1 dose of an NSAID may cause marked and clinically important alterations in renal function in patients with heart failure. However, the decrease in glomerular filtration rate does not merely reflect a decrease in renal plasma flow, but probably the effects of NSAIDs on the intraglomerular actions of prostaglandins. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1530280/
Abstract: To evaluate the iodine status of Dutch adults we used three different iodine status indicators, namely urinary 24-hour iodide excretion (I/24 h), iodide/creatinine ratio in 24-hour urine samples (I/Cr) and 24-hour iodide excretion per kilogram body weight (I/kg). Additionally, the habitual daily iodine intake was calculated. Men had higher mean I/24 h and mean iodine intake than women. No differences between men and women were found for mean I/Cr and mean I/kg. Relatively high (greater than or equal to 18%) prevalences of low values for the different iodine status indicators were found, especially for I/24 h. The intraindividual variance for all three indicators was high. Risk assessment regarding iodine supply, based on urinary iodide excretion, depends on the indicator used, and therefore caution is called for when drawing conclusions. Our results do not argue against the usage of I/24 h as iodine status indicator. More research is needed to solve the question whether iodine requirement depends on such factors as body size, body composition and physical activity. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1530266/
Abstract: Massive pharyngocutaneous fistulae may be arbitrarily defined as those involving two-thirds or more of the circumference of the pharyngeal wall. Three such patients are presented, all after failed radiotherapy and surgery. The principles of management consist of salivary diversion, complete debridement, nutritional support, prophylactic antibiotics, and two-layer, well-vascularized overlapping closure. We currently recommend a radial forearm flap used in conjunction with a pectoralis muscle (or musculocutaneous) flap for rapid rehabilitation of these patients, particularly in the presence of obesity or an irradiated bed. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1530282/
Abstract: The thermic effect (TEF) of vegetarian meals was measured for breakfast and lunch in 6 lean healthy men (18-25 years) during normal feeding (NF) and with 20% overfeeding (OF) on 28 successive days. The energy contents of breakfast were 223 +/- 10 and 330 +/- 48 kcal, and those of lunch were 1,033 +/- 220 and 1,247 +/- 222 kcal in NF and OF, respectively. In NF, the TEF per 180 min was 32.7 +/- 8.6 and 54.8 +/- 6.3 kcal for breakfast and lunch, respectively. In OF, the TEF was 38.3 +/- 8.3 kcal for breakfast and 57.2 +/- 5.4 kcal for lunch. The increase in total TEF due to OF was nonsignificant (p greater than 0.2). In response to 20% OF, adaptive thermogenesis was manifested mainly through an increase in the resting metabolic rate of 4.9% (p less than 0.001). In both feeding, regimes, the percent TEF was higher for breakfast than for lunch (p less than 0.05). Regression analysis of TEF versus calorie load indicated a stable component of 42 kcal with a 2% rate of increase. Yoga exercises were performed from 16.00 to 17.00 daily. The thermic effect of yoga exercises observed from 17.10 to 18.30 was 21 kcal and persisted beyond 90 min, indicating the role of yoga in energy metabolism. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1530439/
Abstract: Insulin-like growth factor I (IGF I) is like prealbumin and transferrin a marker of nutritional status. Its level increases with gestational age. The levels of IGF I (96 times), transferrin (86 times) and prealbumin (69 times) were measured in blood samples from 26 premature infants aged 8 to 78 days (gestational age: 28 to 34 weeks, birth weight: 840 to 1,800 g). At the time of sampling, all the infants were on total parenteral nutrition (360 +/- 42 kJ/kg/day and 2.5 +/- 0.3 g of proteins/kg/day). The results were analysed with reference to anthropometric parameters (weight, height, head circumference, skinfolds and arm circumference). There was no correlation between plasma IGF I and anthropometric measurements. There were significant correlations between IGF I and transferrin (p less than 0.01), prealbumin (p less than 0.05), protein intake (p less than 0.01) an energy intake (p less than 0.05). Plasma IGF I increased at the end of the first week of parenteral nutrition in all the 5 infants having initial low values. The plasma IGF I was not correlated with the duration of parenteral nutrition in the 26 infants after the second week of nutrition. IGF I measurement is useful for evaluating the protein nutritional status of premature infants on total parenteral nutrition. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1530551/
Abstract: The disposal of sewage wastes may cause severe environmental problems as was graphically demonstrated with pollution on Sydney's ocean beaches in recent years. Sewage sludges contain valuable plant nutrients and organic matter which can improve the fertility and structure of the soil. However, human parasites, pathogenic micro-organisms and chemicals capable of causing soil contamination, phytotoxicity and residues in animal products may also be present. Although sewage sludge is frequently spread on agricultural land overseas, it is not common in Australia and most states do not have specific regulations to minimise risk and promote good practice. A sludge-to-land program began in the Sydney region in 1990. It follows guidelines written by NSW Agriculture to encourage beneficial agricultural use of sludge by adoption of environmentally sustainable practices. This article describes the major risks to the food-chain and the environment, which may be associated with applying sewage sludge to agricultural land. It summarises how the risks are managed, and where further research data are required. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1530789/
Abstract: In recent years, relationships of dehydroepiandrosterone and its sulfate ester dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate (DHEAS) with decreased risks of cardiovascular disease as well as a possible role in the aging process have been postulated. To explore the effects of cigarette smoking, a risk factor for cardiovascular disease, as well as age, on the levels of these adrenal androgens, we measured plasma levels of DHEAS in 543 healthy male subjects from the Physicians' Health Study. Blood specimens were collected between August 1982 and December 1984 and stored at -80 C. The overall mean DHEAS level was 3.47 mumol/L (+/- 2.12 SD). DHEAS levels were positively correlated with smoking habits (r = +0.16, P = 0.0002); current smokers had the highest age-adjusted DHEAS concentrations (4.27 mumol/L, P = 0.0005 compared with never smokers), followed by past smokers (3.47 mumol/L, P = 0.02) and never smokers (3.10 mumol/L). A marked linear decline of levels with age was observed, with an average decrease of 3% per year. These data suggest a moderate direct association with cigarette smoking and a powerful influence of age on decreasing levels of DHEAS. After adjusting for age and smoking habits, DHEAS concentrations were also inversely correlated with reported use of multivitamins (r = -0.16, P = 0.0002) and positively correlated with plasma retinol levels (r = 0.14, P = 0.002). 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1530831/
Abstract: The N-terminus of the atrial natriuretic factor (ANF) prohormone (ie, proANF 1-98) contains two vasodilatory peptides consisting of amino acids (aa): aa 1-30 (ie, proANF 1-30) and aa 31-67 (ie, proANF 31-67) of the 126 aa prohormone. The relationship of this N-terminus to the renin-aldosterone axis and blood pressure reduction was investigated in 18 obese subjects (5 hypertensive and 13 normotensive) placed on a 12-week, low sodium (40 mmol), weight reducing diet. The N-terminus of the ANF prohormone and proANF 31-67, which circulates as a distinct entity after being proteolytically cleaved from the N-terminus, were significantly (p less than 0.001) higher (767 +/- 1.01 and 816 +/- 135 fmol/ml) in the obese hypertensive group compared with the obese normotensive group (377 +/- 24 and 356 +/- 17 fmol/ml, respectively) prior to beginning the weight reduction program. There was a dramatic fall in the N-terminus and in proANF 31-67 after 1 week of weight reduction in both obese groups, which correlated with the decrease in mean arterial pressure during the first week and throughout the 12 weeks of weight reduction (r = .54, p less than 0.001 and r = .59, p less than 0.001, respectively). ProANF 1-98 had a significant (p less than 0.01) inverse correlation with plasma renin in both obese groups. ProANF 31-67, likewise, had an inverse correlation with plasma renin in the hypertensive (p less than 0.002), as well as the normotensive (p less than 0.03) subjects. ProANF 31-67 did not significantly correlate with aldosterone in either group.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS) 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1530914/
Abstract: The in vitro and in vivo spectrum of antibacterial activity of clarithromycin is summarized and related to its human pharmacokinetics. In vitro studies by several investigators have documented clarithromycin's activity against bacterial agents of respiratory tract infections, skin and soft tissue infections, and sexually transmitted diseases. Clinical cure rates of 52%-83% (pneumonia), 79%-96% (bronchitis), 82%-96% (pharyngitis), 58% (sinusitis), and 78% (skin/skin-structure infections) have been reported in patients receiving clarithromycin in comparative trials. Respective bacteriologic eradication rates in clarithromycin recipients have been reported as 57%-89%, 79%-96%, 88%-100%, 89%, and 90%. In vitro and in vivo studies suggest that clarithromycin, when combined with its major human metabolite, 14-hydroxyclarithromycin, is also effective against Haemophilus influenzae. A New Drug Application claiming efficacy in the treatment of lower respiratory tract infection, sinusitis, pharyngitis, and skin and skin-structure infections caused by susceptible pathogens has been filed with the Food and Drug Administration (FDA). This review summarizes relevant pharmacokinetic, microbiological, and clinical data for clarithromycin. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1531176/
Abstract: Chloroquine inhibits the growth of susceptible malaria parasites at low (nanomolar) concentrations because of an energy-requiring drug-concentrating mechanism in the parasite secondary lysosome (food vacuole) which is dependent on the acidification of that vesicle. Chloroquine resistance results from another energy-requiring process: efflux of chloroquine from the resistant parasite with a half-time of 2 min. Chloroquine efflux is inhibited reversibly by the removal of metabolizable substrate (glucose); it is also reduced by the ATPase inhibitor vanadate. These results suggest that chloroquine efflux is an energy-requiring process dependent on the generation and hydrolysis of ATP. Chloroquine efflux cannot be explained by differences in drug accumulation between chloroquine-susceptible and -resistant parasites because the 40-50-fold difference in initial efflux rates between -susceptible and -resistant parasites is unchanged when both parasites contain the same amount of chloroquine. Although chloroquine efflux is phenotypically similar to the efflux of anticancer drugs from multidrug-resistant (mdr) mammalian cells, it is not linked to either of the mdr-like genes of the parasite. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1531016/
Abstract: Plasma renin activity (PRA) and serum aldosterone concentration (Ald) were studied in 25 severe handicaps at the rest position. Sixteen cases (64%) showed increased PRA and/or Ald. In four cases treated with acetazolamide PRA or Ald was increased. After suspending this drug in three cases both PRA and Ald decreased significantly. In patients with low-salt-diet (total Na intake; less than 2 mEq/kg/day) PRA was higher than in those with normal-salt-diet (total Na intake; greater than or equal to 2 mEq/kg/day). Alb had no difference in two groups. Urine Na and Cl secretion in patients with low-salt-diet (49.1 +/- 34.1 mEq/l, 43.5 +/- 25.1 mEq/l) were remarkably low when compared to those in patients with normal-salt-diet (113.3 +/- 71.3, 94.2 +/- 56.3). NaCl supplementation in those patients with low-salt-diet for 5 days (total Na intake; 4 mEq/kg/day) resulted in normalization of their high PRA and Ald levels. This phenomenon revealed reversible since suspending NaCl supplementation again increased PRA and Ald levels. These results suggest that both low-salt-diet and acetazolamide play important roles for renin secretion in severe handicaps. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1531073/
Abstract: A double-pediatric kidney transplant recipient, who developed hypertension, was found to have unilateral renal artery stenosis. The stenosis was successfully assessed by single-dose 99mTc-diethylenetriaminepentaacetic acid renal scintigraphy, confirmed by renal arteriography, and treated by percutaneous transluminal angioplasty. This case illustrates the usefulness of Captopril-enhanced renography in screening en-bloc transplant patients suspected for renal vascular hypertension. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1531525/
Abstract: Fractures of the upper end of the femur constitute a major public health problem which, for demographic reasons, will become worse during the next decades. The clinical determination of femoral neck fractures is imperfectly known. Two factors seem to be determinant: bone fragility and fall, but these factors are frequent in the elderly and other factors seem to intervene, notably the modality of the impact and the protection reflexes during the fall. The epidemiology of proximal femur fractures therefore cannot be restricted to the diminution of bone mass. Beside age and female sex, the confirmed risk factors for these fractures are: ethnic origin, absence of replacement hormonal therapy in menopausal women, slight build and absorption of certain psychotropic drugs. To be efficient, preventive measures must rest on a better knowledge of the determinant factors. Epidemiological research should develop rationally and aim at identifying more accurate risk factors, taking into account the mechanisms responsible for proximal femur fractures: fall, lack of cushioning and protection during the fall, and bone fragility. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1531038/
Abstract: Between September 1984 and June 1985, a total of 75 adolescent girls, 35 vegetarians residing in a Seventh-Day Adventist school and 40 nonvegetarians residing in a private non-Adventist boarding school, underwent measurement of their plasma hormone levels in the follicular and luteal phase of their menstrual cycles as well as dietary intake measured by 3-day food records, medical history, height, and weight. There were no significant differences between vegetarians and nonvegetarians in average age of the girls, weight, body mass index, age at menarche, years since the onset of menstruation, or percentage of girls with ovulatory cycles. Vegetarian girls had significantly higher levels of log follicular estradiol [2.00 +/- 0.27 (SD) versus 1.85 +/- 0.27 pg/ml, P less than or equal to 0.05] and luteal dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate (DHS) (1.88 +/- 0.71 versus 1.45 +/- 0.80 microgram/ml, P less than or equal to 0.05) than nonvegetarian girls. Follicular DHS was higher in vegetarians than in nonvegetarians (1.72 +/- 0.79 versus 1.45 +/- 0.95 microgram/ml), but the difference was not significant. The differences in follicular and luteal DHS, but not the difference in log estradiol, were significant (P less than or equal to 0.05) after controlling for ovulation, smoking, and alcohol intake with multivariable regression analysis. There were no significant differences in testosterone or in percentage free estradiol levels between vegetarians and nonvegetarians. Smoking was significantly associated with follicular and luteal DHS and with percentage free follicular estradiol, while alcohol use was significantly and inversely associated with percentage free follicular estradiol after controlling for other variables. The implications for breast cancer risk are discussed. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1531244/
Abstract: Recently, lipoprotein (a) [Lp(a)] has been identified as a major risk factor for coronary heart disease. No data are available on the effect of improved metabolic control on plasma Lp(a) concentrations in subjects with type II diabetes mellitus, a group at high risk for coronary heart disease. We examined the effects of improved metabolic control on plasma lipid and lipoproteins and Lp(a) concentrations in 12 subjects before and after 21 days of tight metabolic control. Glycosylated hemoglobin declined from 8.9% to 6.9% (P less than .002). Lp(a) increased slightly from 21.4 to 25.8 mg/dL (P = .119) with improved metabolic control. There were no significant differences in total, low-density, or high-density cholesterol values, although the decline in triglyceride concentrations was statistically significant. The distribution of apolipoprotein (a) [apo (a)] isoforms in subjects with type II diabetes mellitus was not unusual and the apo (a) isoform patterns did not change with improved metabolic control. Although the number of subjects was small, there was no decline in Lp(a) concentrations with improved control and thus the effect of glycemic control on Lp(a) concentrations may be much smaller in type II than in type I diabetes. These results suggest that diabetic subjects with elevated Lp(a) concentrations should have intensive management of conventional cardiovascular risk factors such as high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDLC), low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDLC), and blood pressure. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1531561/
Abstract: We investigated the effect of negative pressure breathing during the inspiratory phase only (intermittent NPB) in 9 healthy male subjects who were in a sitting position and had no food or fluid intake for 12 h before the study. Intermittent NPB was without effect on urine flow and urinary sodium excretion but caused a significant increase in creatinine clearance. Plasma renin activity was significantly reduced, whereas plasma antidiuretic hormone (ADH), atrial natriuretic factor (ANF), and aldosterone levels were unaffected. To determine whether the blunted urinary response to intermittent NPB was a postural phenomenon, the study was repeated in 6 of the subjects while supine. Under these conditions there was a significant increase in urine flow and plasma ANF levels, but no change in all other measured variables. These results are consistent with a role for ANF, but not ADH, in the diuresis seen in supine subjects during NPB. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1531551/
Abstract: To define the cost-effectiveness of a back school program in industry, a controlled longitudinal field study was carried out in a Dutch bus company. The experimental group received a program consisting of information on back care, physical fitness, nutrition, stress, and relaxation. Objective data on absenteeism were collected and compared during a 6-year period for the control and experimental groups. Results showed that a tailor-made back school program reduced absenteeism by at least 5 days per year per employee, therefore being cost-effective to industry. A reduction was not observed in incidence, but in mean length of absenteeism. This effect turned out to be persistent during a 2-year period following the program. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1531484/
Abstract: To evaluate the effect of food on bioavailability, clarithromycin and 14-hydroxyclarithromycin (active metabolite) pharmacokinetics were assessed in 26 healthy adult volunteers after ingestion of a single oral 500-mg dose of clarithromycin in a fasting state (2 hours before breakfast after an overnight fast) and a nonfasting state (0.5 hours after the start of breakfast). Clarithromycin and 14-hydroxy metabolite plasma concentrations were measured using a high-performance liquid chromatographic technique. Food intake immediately before dosing increased the extent of absorption from the 500-mg tablet formulation by approximately 25%. The mean increase in metabolite area under the plasma concentration-time curve was approximately 9%. These results suggest that clarithromycin can be taken without regard to timing in relation to meals. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1531426/
Abstract: Objective:
        
      
      To determine whether low protein diets retard the development of end stage renal disease. Design:
        
      
      Meta-analysis of 46 trials since 1975, from which six randomised controlled trials were selected. Setting:
        
      
      Five trials in Europe and one in Australia between 1982 and 1991. Subjects:
        
      
      890 patients with mild to severe chronic renal failure who were followed up for at least one year. 450 patients received a low protein diet and 440 a control diet. Intervention:
        
      
      Difference in protein intake between control and treated groups of at least 0.2 g protein/kg/day. Main outcome measure:
        
      
      Number of renal deaths (the necessity to start dialysis or death of patient during study). Results:
        
      
      156 renal deaths were recorded, 61 in the low protein diet group and 95 in the control group, leading to an odds ratio of low protein to control of 0.54 with a 95% confidence interval of 0.37 to 0.79. Conclusions:
        
      
      This result, obtained on a large population of patients suffering from chronic renal insufficiency, strongly supports the effectiveness of low protein diets in delaying the onset of end stage renal disease. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1531597/
Abstract: Cancer cachexia is one of the most prevalent and devastating syndromes associated with advanced cancer. Its main clinical manifestation is profound anorexia. Progestational drugs have shown meaningful effects on appetite, food intake, and nutritional status in patients with advanced cancer and AIDS, and could be useful in managing anorexia. Corticosteroids also seem to produce increased appetite, but these effects are short-lived. Cyproheptadine, hydrazine sulfate, and cannabinoids also are being studied in the management of cancer-induced anorexia, but their role has not yet been clearly established. Future research should evaluate how the different drugs affect specific symptoms associated with cachexia. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1531661/
Abstract: The aim of this study was to analyze the association between some general background factors and caries experience in two groups of Finnish children (from Helsinki and Kuopio) and Soviet children (Moscow and Leningrad). A total of 1187 schoolchildren, ages seven, nine and twelve years, were examined and information about their health habits was gathered by questionnaire. Questions included use of sweets, cakes, soft drinks, sugar-sweetened coffee and tea, toothbrushing frequency and mother's education. Except for age, the factors that explain caries experience clearly differ in Finnish and Soviet children. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1531691/
Abstract: The mechanism behind the meal-induced increase in energy expenditure in humans and its reduction in obesity was examined in 15 normal-weight and seven obese subjects. The subjects were studied by indirect calorimetry in the basal state and during 2 hours after a mixed meal corresponding to 40% of the 24-hour basal energy requirement. Artificial thermal insulation was applied over the abdominal area before the study in seven of the normal-weight subjects. Thermistor catheters were inserted into a hepatic vein, the pulmonary artery, and a systemic artery for blood sampling and recording of blood temperatures. Basal hepatic venous drainage of heat in relation to the splanchnic oxygen uptake in the normal-weight subjects was low (12 +/- 1 J/mL O2) and became even lower after the meal (5 +/- 3 J/mL). In the obese individuals and the insulated subjects, blood-drained splanchnic heat amounted to 19 to 21 J/mL oxygen both before and after the meal. The postprandial increase in whole body energy expenditure was diminished both in the obese (12% +/- 1% above basal) and in the insulated subjects (15% +/- 1%) compared with the noninsulated controls (22% +/- 2%). In normal-weight subjects, there is a leakage of heat across the abdominal wall. Reduction or prevention of this leakage by artificial thermal insulation or by obesity is accompanied by a reduction of the postprandial increase in energy expenditure. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1531801/
Abstract: The densities of T cells and of cells bearing the T cell receptors gamma/delta and alpha/delta and the surface antigens CD4 and CD8 in jejunal specimens from 21 patients with dermatitis herpetiformis were compared with those in specimens from 13 untreated adults with coeliac disease and 13 control subjects. In the lamina propria of the jejunum the median density of gamma/delta+ cells was significantly (p less than 0.001) greater in untreated patients with dermatitis herpetiformis than in control subjects (114 v 36 cells/mm2) and similar to that found in the patients with coeliac disease (115 cells/mm2). The difference in gamma/delta+ cell density between patients with dermatitis herpetiformis and control subjects was much greater in the surface epithelium of the jejunum: the median density for 14 untreated patients with dermatitis herpetiformis was 39 cells/mm, for seven patients with dermatitis herpetiformis on a gluten free diet 34 cells/mm, and for control subjects 2 cells/mm; the coeliac patients had the same density as the patients with dermatitis herpetiformis (45 cells/mm). The higher density of cells bearing the alpha/delta T cell receptor in the epithelium (median 77 cells/mm) of untreated patients with dermatitis herpetiformis was associated with a gluten containing diet; in specimens taken from patients with dermatitis herpetiformis on a gluten free diet the median density was similar to that in the control subjects (44 v 39 cells/mm). The increase in the number of lymphocytes bearing the T cell receptor gamma/delta, particularly in the epithelium of the jejunum, seems to be a constant marker for these closely related diseases, whereas the density of alpha/delta+ T cells is dependent on the diet. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1531896/
Abstract: We believe that couples contemplating pregnancy should consider it to be a 12-month experience, taking 3 months prior to conception to change diets, lifestyles, and exercise routines, so as to maximize overall health. We encourage expectant parents to use the information and approach presented in back school in purchasing car seats and other equipment for child care activities. The Alexander Technique approach to posture and body mechanics can be a powerful adjunct to back school. It is being taught privately, in clinical settings, and in universities throughout the United States. Benefits range from relieving neck and back pain to improving body mechanics in child care activities. This approach to working with the mind and body as a whole enables patients to further help themselves without having to depend on long-term therapy in the reduction of overall musculoskeletal problems. Health care practitioners, working as a team, have an important role to play in the prevention and control of back pain in expectant women and their partners. Patient education, in individual or group form, can help to prepare patients and their partners to handle the stresses and strains of pregnancy, birth, and child care activities. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1544144/
Abstract: Orotic acid, first discovered in ruminant milk, is an intermediate in the pyrimidine biosynthesis pathway of animal cells. Its synthesis is initiated by the formation of carbamoyl phosphate (CP) in the cytoplasm, with ammonia derived from glutamine. Ureotelic species also form CP in the first step of urea synthesis in liver mitochondria. For that, ammonia is derived from tissue fluid. When there is insufficient capacity for detoxifying the load of ammonia presented for urea synthesis, CP leaves the mitochondria and enters the pyrimidine pathway, where orotic acid biosynthesis is stimulated, orotic acid excretion in urine then increases. Orotic acid synthesis is abnormally high with hereditary deficiencies of urea-cycle enzymes or uridine monophosphate synthase. It is also elevated by ammonia intoxication and during feeding of diets high in protein, high in lysine with respect to arginine, or deficient in arginine, ornithine, and citrulline. Rats fed 1% orotic acid or diets deficient in urea-cycle amino acids develop fatty livers, which has not been demonstrated in other species. Humans consuming 6 g of orotic acid daily have not shown adverse effects. Rats fed 1% orotic acid or arginine-deficient diets also showed more and larger foci positive for gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase and more liver tumors after administration of carcinogens and partial hepatectomy. Orotic acid feeding was also associated with the tendency for development of larger mammary tumors induced by chemical carcinogens in rats and with development of urinary bladder calculi containing high concentrations of orotic acid in mice. Conditions that raise tissue orotic acid change purine-pyrimidine ratios. It is unknown whether tissue orotate concentrations play a role in the recently observed enhanced proliferation of cells in the colon of rats fed high-protein, high-fat diets or in the promotion of chemically induced colon cancer by intrarectal administration of ammonium acetate. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1544150/
Abstract: Although ethanol has generally not been found to induce cancer in experimental animals, the consumption of alcoholic beverages has been linked to increased risks of several cancers in humans. Risks of oral, pharyngeal, laryngeal, esophageal, and liver cancer are elevated among drinkers, typically in proportion to the amount consumed. Evidence associating colorectal and breast cancer with alcohol drinking is suggestive but awaits confirmation. All types of alcoholic beverages seem to be implicated, pointing to an etiological role for ethanol or its metabolites. The mechanisms, however, by which alcohol induces cancer in humans are not clear. This review summarizes epidemiological studies of alcohol and cancer, focusing primarily on characteristics of the association that may provide clues to causal pathways. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1544148/
Abstract: Potent mutagenic and carcinogenic heterocyclic amines are produced from heated food derived from muscle. These compounds are present at part-per-billion levels and consist primarily of the amino-imidazoazaarene class of chemicals. Additional mutagens present in the meat are not as clearly characterized. Commercial fried-beef patties (hamburgers) have low levels of 2-amino-3,8-dimethylimidazo[4,5-f]quinoxaline (MeIQx) and 2-amino-3,4,8-trimethylimidazo[4,5-f]quinoxaline (4,8-DiMeIQx), 0.1-0.68 ng/g meat for MeIQx and slightly lower for 4,8-DiMeIQx. The formation of these heterocyclic amines can be reduced by microwave pretreatment of meat, with the resulting liquid being poured off before frying. The Ames/Salmonella mutagenic activity was reduced to 5-10% of that of non-microwave-treated samples. MeIQx and DiMeIQx concentrations were reduced to 12% and 50% of levels in the non-microwave-treated samples, respectively. MeIQx adducts, as measured by accelerator mass spectrometry, were found to be linear with doses from 5 mg/kg to 500 ng/kg. Linear DNA binding at low doses is important for assuming linear risk estimation from the high animal-feeding doses causing cancer to the low human-dietary exposures. Extrapolating from the rodent TD50 dose to humans gives a maximum credible risk from consumption of heterocyclic amines of approximately 1/1000 exposed individuals. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1544281/
Abstract: The Division of Pediatric Cardiology began a preventive cardiology program in response to the American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP) Nutrition Committee recommendations on pediatric cholesterol screening. This program has consisted of both public and physician educational programs as well as the treatment of individual hyperlipidemic children. A survey of 67 local pediatricians has revealed that they have not followed the AAP directive for a "family history" approach to pediatric cholesterol screening, with most pediatricians screening all their patients for cholesterol abnormalities. Our dietary treatment program for hyperlipidemic children has given good short-term results, lowering mean total cholesterol concentrations by 10% (23 mg/dl) and mean low density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL) concentrations by 9.3% (16 mg/dl), as well as decreasing the total cholesterol/high density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL) ratio by 10% (0.6). The additional use of cholestyramine in nine selected patients has effected even greater mean value decreases of 45 mg/dl or 16% (total cholesterol), 44 mg/dl or 19% (LDL), and 1.3 or 19% (total cholesterol/HDL ratio). All these changes are statistically significant (p less than 0.05). These encouraging short-term results hopefully will promote the long-term goal of decreasing the incidence of coronary artery disease, which remains the leading cause of death in our country. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1544142/
Abstract: Calcium contributes to the progression of epithelial cells through all phases of the proliferative cycle and into stages of cell differentiation; intracellular concentrations of calcium that are required for cell renewal, however, are lower than those required for epithelial-cell differentiation. These effects of calcium are modulated by interactions with 1,25-dihydroxy-vitamin D3, phosphate, and fatty acids, all of which are partly dependent on dietary intake. In rodent models, increased dietary calcium inhibited hyperproliferation of colon epithelial cells induced by increased levels of fatty acids or bile acids present in the colon. When carcinogens induced hyperproliferation of colon epithelial cells the hyperproliferation was decreased by added dietary calcium, and in several animal models the occurrence of carcinogen-induced carcinomas of the colon decreased with increased dietary calcium. A nutritional stress diet, designed to represent human Western dietary intake of calcium, phosphate, vitamin D, and fat, produced hyperproliferation and hyperplasia in the colons of rodents; these effects were reduced by increasing dietary levels of calcium. Decreased levels of ornithine decarboxylase also were reported in human and rodent colon mucosa exposed to increasing levels of calcium. In human subjects at increased risk for familial colon cancer, hyperproliferation of colon epithelial cells was reduced after oral dietary supplementation with calcium. In epidemiological studies, several investigators reported inverse correlations between levels of dietary calcium intake and the incidence of colon cancer. Extrapolation of the data have suggested a protective effect of total calcium intakes above 1500 to 1800 mg/day. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1544280/
Abstract: Although considerable attention has focused on the pathophysiology and external dermatologic consequences of epidermolysis bullosa (EB), head and neck mucosal manifestations pose specific management problems. The otolaryngologic aspects of EB, with emphasis on involvement and treatment of the ears, oral cavity and teeth, larynx and trachea, and pharynx and esophagus, are reviewed. Guidelines are presented for specialized dental, anesthetic, and nutritional management in patients with this potentially fatal disease. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1544141/
Abstract: Increased intake of vegetables, fruits, and carotenoids and elevated blood levels of beta-carotene are consistently associated with reduced risk of lung cancer in epidemiologic studies. Epidemiologic research also suggests that carotenoids may reduce the risk of other cancers, although the evidence is less extensive and consistent. The simplest explanation is that beta-carotene is protective. However, the possible roles of other carotenoids, other constituents of vegetables and fruits, and associated dietary patterns have not been adequately explored. To evaluate these alternative hypotheses, we are undertaking three lines of research. (a) With dietary data from the 1987 National Health Interview Survey and the 1982-1984 Epidemiologic Follow-up of the first National Health and Nutrition Examination Study, we have determined which food groups and nutrients are highly correlated with vegetable and fruit intake. (b) We have developed and characterized a liquid chromatography method for optimal recovery and resolution of the common carotenoids in blood, specifically lutein, zeaxanthin, beta-cryptoxanthin, lycopene, alpha-carotene, and beta-carotene. (c) In a population-based case-control study of lung cancer in white men in New Jersey, we are assessing whether estimates of the intake of the individual carotenoids might produce stronger inverse associations than estimates of provitamin A carotenoids based on current food composition tables. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1544139/
Abstract: That dietary fat can significantly affect mammary tumorigenesis in mice and rats has been clearly established. The purpose of this communication is to review and critique this interesting and potentially important relationship. This review focuses on the relationship between the amount and type of dietary fat and the role of calories in rodent mammary tumor development and metastasis. Additionally, the influence of dietary fat on development of human breast carcinoma transplants in immunodeficient mice is examined. The numerous studies cited in this review provide a compelling biological foundation for a potentially important relationship between dietary fat and/or calorie consumption and breast carcinoma development in human populations. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1544548/
Abstract: Radiography and manometry of the esophagus were compared in 77 patients consecutively referred for manometric investigation on suspicion of esophageal motility disorder. Radiography and manometry were carried out simultaneously, and the results were assessed blindly. The examination comprised barium swallow, bread barium swallow, and barium swilling. Considering manometry as the standard, the overall sensitivity and specificity of the radiologic examinations were 90.4% and 92.0%, respectively. We conclude that radiology is an excellent investigation for the separation of patients with and without esophageal motility disorders, but correct subclassification often required manometry. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1544149/
Abstract: The ability of human and rabbit gastrointestinal-tract microsomes to metabolize the heterocyclic amine 2-amino-3,4-dimethylimidazo[4,5-f]quinoline (MeIQ) to a mutagen was determined with the Ames test. When human jejunal and ileal microsomes were used as the metabolic activation source, MeIQ produced 1675 and 388 revertants/mg of microsomal protein, respectively, and this increased to 29,230 and 17,963 revertants/mg of microsomal protein, respectively, in the presence of 100 microM alpha-naphthoflavone. MeIQ in the presence of control rabbit duodenal, jejunal, and ileal microsomes produced 2304 +/- 1018, 988 +/- 386, and 444 +/- 134 (mean +/- SD, four samples) revertants/mg of microsomal protein, respectively. In the presence of alpha-naphthoflavone (100 microM), these activities increased greater than 7-fold. P4503A proteins were detectable on Western blots of microsomes prepared from both human and rabbit small intestine. Further, rifampicin-induced rabbit hepatic-microsomal activation of MeIQ was completely inhibited at low concentrations of alpha-naphthoflavone, but at higher concentrations (i.e., 100 microM) this returned to control levels. Flavone also caused a marked stimulation of MeIQ activation in human and rabbit gastrointestinal-tract microsomes. The aforementioned data suggest that flavonoids markedly increase the ability of P4503A isozymes to activate heterocyclic amines to mutagens in the Ames test. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1544604/
Abstract: The dietary intake of anticholinesterase (anti-ChE) agents was estimated in 331 schoolteachers during the spraying season. Summer plasma-cholinesterase (ChE) activity was compared with the baseline value obtained during winter. Intraindividual plasma-ChE activity varied independently of factors such as drugs, non-malignant diseases, alcohol and smoking. A depressed mean plasma-ChE, indicating an intake of anti-ChE agents (P = 0.04), was observed in individuals who consumed exclusively agriculturally-grown fruits and vegetables without an additional intake of unsprayed, home-grown products. It remains to be determined whether a subclinical but chronic intake of anti-ChE agents in the diet can be hazardous to humans. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1544707/
Abstract: Exposure to nitrate and propensity for endogenous nitrosation were examined in 80 healthy males, aged 25-40 years, residing in areas of Italy with long-standing high (Florence) and low (Cagliari) rates of gastric cancer. Nitrate exposure was assessed by measurement of urinary nitrate excretion over 12 hr, and endogenous nitrosation was assessed using the N-nitrosoproline test (NPRO-test). Our hypothesis was whether the geographic variation in cancer rate correlated with nitrate exposure or nitrosating ability. Exposure to background sources of NPRO was significantly higher in the high-risk subjects (phi = 0.04) whereas no differences were found in exposure to nitrate or in urinary NPRO levels after L-proline loading (test NPRO levels). The regional difference in test NPRO was almost completely accounted for by background NPRO exposure. Examination of individual rather than grouped data revealed that exposure to nitrate was a major factor in NPRO formation. No other factors studied (age, dietary-questionnaire-assessed intake of anti-oxidant vitamins) had a significant effect. Geographical variation in gastric cancer risk did not, therefore, correlate with either nitrate exposure or propensity for endogenous nitrosation of L-proline. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1544732/
Abstract: To assess the effect of a period of increasing training on dietary quantity and quality, a men's collegiate swim team (n = 24) was divided into two groups of equal skill at the start of a 25-week season of training and competition. After a 4-week conditioning period, the "Long" group underwent a 6-week period during which they swam up to 44,000 m.wk-1, while the "Short" group maintained their swimming at 22,000 m.wk-1. For the remainder of the season, the two groups swam together, performing the same volume and intensity of training. Two-day food intake records were obtained during the early season, during the period of increased training, and during the late season. Swimmers' diets during the early season averaged 15.3 MJ, with 55% from carbohydrate (500 g), and exceeded RDAs for all nutrients assessed. During the increased training period, energy and carbohydrate intakes of the Long group increased significantly (p less than 0.05) to 17.7 MJ and 600 g respectively, but the percentage of energy derived from carbohydrate, protein and fat was stable. Intakes of the Short group did not change over the season. Energy intake did not fully compensate for expenditure, as both groups maintained weight but lost subcutaneous fat. An increase in training volume appears to result in an increased consumption of the athletes' usual diets. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1544759/
Abstract: An evaluation of the impact of a nationwide clinic-based growth monitoring (GM) programme was done in Lesotho to determine if clinic attendance was associated with improved maternal knowledge of weaning practices and diarrhoea. A total of 907 mothers from eight clinics were included in the study. Our results showed that mothers who had attended the clinics knew more about the appropriate timing for introducing animal protein-rich foods in the child's diet and about the use of oral rehydration salts for diarrhoea, than those who had not. The difference in knowledge between previous clinic attendants and new attendants was particularly marked among mothers with less than secondary schooling and mothers with young babies (less than 6 months). From observation in the clinics, we believe that group nutrition education, although it was not integrated with growth monitoring, was probably responsible for the positive association between clinic attendance and maternal knowledge. Prior clinic attendance was not specifically associated with improved knowledge about feeding during diarrhoea or the need to stop breastfeeding gradually. These need to be better incorporated into present clinic nutrition education. Whether improvements in growth monitoring would further significantly improve nutrition education remains to be seen. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1544762/
Abstract: The relation of alcohol consumption to mortality is examined using the data of the Italian rural cohorts of the Seven Countries Study, a prospective investigation of factors related to cardiovascular disease (CVD). The present analysis includes 1536 men aged 45-64, whose dietary habits and food consumption, including alcoholic beverages, were measured in 1965. Of them, 463 men died in a follow-up period of 15 years. The analysis shows a J-shaped relationship between alcohol consumption, expressed as percentage of total daily energy intake, and both overall mortality and cardiovascular mortality; this J-shaped relationship is evident even after adjusting for age, cigarette smoking and occupation. The inverse relationship for consumption of small quantities of alcohol, which is represented by the left side of the J-curve, is no longer significant when all men with previous cardiovascular manifestations are excluded from the analysis, yet it is never completely eliminated. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1544824/
Abstract: A voluntary health promotion program was introduced at an academic institution with 665 employees. The 239 employees who volunteered to participate in a health risk appraisal were significantly younger and more likely to be female than were nonparticipants. The prevalence rates of the major coronary heart disease risk factors in the participants were as follows: hypercholesterolemia, 25.5%; elevated blood pressure, 15.5%; and current cigarette smoker, 15.1%. In addition, many participants daily consumed food high in cholesterol or fat (54.2%), were obese (44.8%), and led sedentary lifestyles (28.5%). Although a majority of female participants had received physician/nurse breast examinations and had Papanicolaou smears taken during the previous year, only about half this number performed monthly breast self-examinations. A telephone survey of employees revealed the most desired health promotion program components to be stress reduction, nutrition counseling, exercise fitness, and weight reduction. The program is now being monitored for health benefits and program costs. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1544755/
Abstract: Data obtained from a general health examination in 1953-1954 of 2605 middle-aged Dutch civil servants were analysed to investigate the relation between dietary calcium and cardiovascular (CVD) and coronary heart disease (CHD) mortality. Calcium intake was assessed at baseline by a 1-week food frequency recall. Multivariate adjusted odds ratios (OR) were calculated using the highest quintile of calcium intake as the reference. No statistically significant associations were observed for low calcium intake in 15 and 28 years of follow-up in both men and women. For men, multivariate adjusted OR for the lowest quintile of calcium intake were 1.3 (95% confidence interval (CI): 0.8-1.9) and 0.9 (95% CI: 0.6-1.6) for 28-year CVD and CHD mortality, respectively. For women, corresponding OR were 1.1 (95% CI: 0.6-2.0) and 1.1 (95% CI: 0.5-2.5). Although an inverse association between calcium intake and CVD and CHD mortality, possibly mediated by blood pressure, might be hypothesized, no clear association was observed. Because dietary patterns in the 1950s were quite stable, and major calcium sources were addressed, misclassification of calcium intake may not be fully responsible for this finding. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1545095/
Abstract: The histamine content of 108 inhalant, food, and venom extracts from four commercial sources was measured by chemical (glass fiber-based) and immunologic (competitive RIA) methods. Histamine was present in 64 of 76 inhalant extracts (range, 0.005 to 7.4 micrograms/ml), 20 of 26 food extracts (range, 0.16 to 23 micrograms/ml), and six of six venoms, 100 micrograms/ml (range, 1.0 to 38 micrograms/ml). Histamine was removed by treatment with diamine oxidase or dialysis of an extract. Repeat assay of selected extracts after addition of known amounts of histamine in the glass fiber-based method produced additive results, and glycerin- or phenol-extract preservatives did not affect assay performance. Timed extractions of dried-pollen grains demonstrated maximal histamine content at 30 seconds, suggesting that histamine is an inherent component of at least some pollens. Histamine found in some allergen extracts could, under extreme circumstances, produce false-positive results in skin testing and in basophil histamine release assays, and could affect the result of research that uses intact pollen or allergen extracts. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1545092/
Abstract: The 209 mothers to be, enrolled in a randomized, prospective, allergy-prevention study from allergy-prone families, totally abstained from cow's milk and egg from gestational week 28 to delivery. This article presents the development of allergic disease at 5 years of age in their children, compared with the development of allergic disease in the children of the control mothers who took normal food throughout pregnancy. The prevalence of allergic disease could be evaluated in 198 children (95%). Allergic disease was monitored with questionnaires, skin prick testing, serum-IgE determinations, and physical examination. Eczema, allergic rhinoconjunctivitis, and asthma was equally common in the groups. Persistent food intolerance to egg was significantly more common in children of the mothers receiving the diet. This long-term follow-up confirms our previous findings that maternal elimination diet during late pregnancy does not prevent the development of allergic disease in the genetically predisposed child. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1545094/
Abstract: The purpose of this study was to determine whether patients allergic to one fish species can safely eat other fish species. Eleven atopic, food-allergic children and young adults with histories consistent with IgE-mediated fish hypersensitivity were skin prick tested to 10 fish species. Skin prick tests (SPTs) were positive to all 10 fish in eight of the 11 patients, and the remaining three patients had at least two positive fish SPTs. Positive oral challenges occurred to only one fish in seven of the patients, to two fish species in one patient, and to three fish species in two patients. One patient did not react to any of the fish tested. Sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and immunoblot analyses were performed on raw and cooked protein extracts from nine of the 10 fish species used in SPTs. Several protein bands in the raw-fish extracts appeared to denature with cooking and form high molecular weight conglomerates. Immunoblot analyses with sera from documented fish-allergic patients demonstrated specific IgE binding to protein bands from fish to which patients were not clinically allergic, as determined by oral challenge. In ELISA-inhibition assays, the concentration of fish antigen required to achieve 50% inhibition was similar for fish to which the patients were clinically allergic as compared to fish to which they were clinically tolerant. SPT and in vitro evidence of IgE-specific cross-reactivity does not necessarily correlate with symptomatic fish allergy. In addition, these fish-hypersensitive patients were able to consume one or more other fish species without adverse allergic reactions. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1545176/
Abstract: In an attempt to determine the principles of diet management in obese pregnant women, the association between maternal weight gain during pregnancy (Group I; weight reduction, Group II; +0-4 kg, Group III; +5-9 kg, Group IV; +10 kg-) and the incidence of the complications was investigated in 151 obese pregnant women. Studies on glucose tolerance and insulin binding to erythrocytes were also undertaken. 1) In Group I, the incidences of C/S, forceps delivery, prolonged labor and complication of PIH were lower than those of other groups. There were no heavy-for-dates and light-for-dates babies in Group I, differing from the other three groups. 2) Plasma levels of glucose and insulin were high in obese pregnant women on 75 g OGTT in the second trimester. The binding sites of insulin to erythrocytes were significantly decreased in obese pregnant women. In conclusion, the risks of pregnancy complicated by obesity were high. Insulin resistance was a characteristic of obese pregnant women. The results of this study suggested that the nutritional requirements for very obese pregnant women should be restricted to maintaining the same weight or losing weight during the course of pregnancy to minimize maternal and perinatal risks. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1545284/
Abstract: Fifty-one subjects with documented intra-articular pathology refractory to non-surgical therapy underwent temporomandibular joint (TMJ) disc repositioning surgery. Following surgery, subjects were evaluated for 6 months to 6 years by clinical examinations and questionnaires at designated times, and by postsurgical joint imaging. Significant decreases were noted in pain (headache, TMJ pain, ear pain, and neck/shoulder pain), the incidence of joint sounds and locking, and the presence of dietary restrictions. However, 35% of the subjects continued to have residual TMJ pain, and a similar percentage continued to need periodic nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs for analgesia. Some degree of dietary restriction remained in approximately 50% of the subjects, and joint sounds persisted in a similar percentage following surgery. Mean mouth opening was improved by 8 mm, although lateral movements were increased by less than 0.5 mm. Surgery did not decrease the occurrence of jaw deviation, and disc position was unchanged in 86% of the joints imaged at an average of 2 years following surgery. Although TMJ disc repositioning surgery significantly improved pain and dysfunction in TMJ surgery patients, the improvement in disc position was not maintained in most subjects following surgery. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1545215/
Abstract: To validate data on tobacco use, the authors investigated the use of hair samples for quantifying nicotine and cotinine by gas chromatography/mass spectrometry. Hair was taken from 22 nonsmokers and 42 smokers, cut close to the scalp at the back of the head. The hair (about 100 mg from each subject) was incubated in 3 mL of 1N NaOH at 100 degrees C for 1 h. After this, the samples were extracted by diethyl ether. The drugs were separated on a 12-m BP-5 capillary column and detected using selected ion monitoring (nicotine, m/z 84; cotinine, m/z 98). Hair from nonsmokers and smokers contains nicotine and cotinine. Although it is difficult to determine an absolute cutoff level, an amount greater than 2 ng of nicotine per milligram of hair can be used to differentiate smokers from nonsmokers. In the population of nonsmokers, the influence of environmental smoke exposure was noted. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1545342/
Abstract: One of the more frequently used measures of eating disorders is the 40-item Eating Attitudes Test (EAT) developed by Garner and Garfinkel (1979). Although originally designed to diagnose anorexia nervosa, the test has recently been applied to nonclinical populations also. In this study, we examined psychometric and validity data for a short version of the scale, the EAT-26. Using a sample of 809 female soldiers in their late teens, results showed that the EAT-26 is reliable, the factor structure is different from that obtained in clinical groups, and the EAT-26 is significantly correlated with body image, weight, and diet. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1555777/
Abstract: Elderly diabetic patients are prone to the acute and subacute consequences of hyperglycemia, which can adversely affect health, well being, and quality of life. Every elderly patient with diabetes should be offered an individualized treatment plan, consisting of education, dietary counseling, and an exercise program. If fasting and postprandial glucose levels do not stay consistently in the desired range, then an oral hypoglycemic agent should be instituted at the lowest possible dose. When the oral hypoglycemic agent fails, it may be possible to achieve good glycemic control with the addition of insulin. Recent developments in insulin administration can optimize glycemic benefits and reduce potential adverse effects. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1555887/
Abstract: The relation between diet and lung cancer was studied among male residents of a mining community in Yunnan Province. After obtaining food frequency data from subjects or proxies, we compared diets of 428 cases, aged 35-74 years, and 1,011 age-matched controls. Cases tended to consume slightly more rice, but less protein-rich foods (i.e., bean curd, meat, eggs) and vegetables than did controls. The relative risks of lung cancer across increasing quartiles of meat (i.e., pork) consumption, for example, were 1.00, 0.67, 0.72 and 0.46 (p for trend less than 0.01). The relative risks of lung cancer across increasing quartiles of consumption of dark-green, leafy vegetables were 1.00, 0.62, 0.52 and 0.41 (p for trend less than 0.01). Although specific dietary constituent(s) responsible for the protective effect of vegetable consumption could not be identified, carotenoids other than beta-carotene, or compounds in cruciferous or Allium vegetables, are possibilities. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1556032/
Abstract: This descriptive exploratory study was undertaken in an attempt to describe how hypertension as a disease and illness is conceptualized from the point of view and experience of black couples. Twenty-one black couples were interviewed and the data content was analyzed. Explanatory models constructed from the taped interviews revealed that the differences in knowing about hypertension were primarily due to gender. Differences were identified in the structure and content of the explanatory models. Content differences between women and men were primarily in the areas of stress and diet. The significance of this research is that it identified gender differences in ways of learning about illness that need further exploration. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1556212/
Abstract: One hundred sixty-eight subjects completed a 105-item questionnaire that explored their beliefs about the cause, correlates, and cures of anorexia nervosa. The questionnaire was derived from interviews with lay people that concerned their beliefs and theories about anorexia. The three parts of the questionnaire were individually factor analyzed, and an interpretable factor structure emerged for each. While age and body size did not correlate with these factors, sex, personal experience of eating disorders, and being acquainted with an anorexic were significant correlates of a number of factors. Factors associated with cause, correlates, and cure were correlated modestly and significantly. Both the introduction and the discussion consider the differences between "lay" and "scientific" theories of anorexia nervosa. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1555905/
Abstract: To determine the effect of a carbohydrate-(CHO) enriched diet on long-term, intermittent exercise performance, seven professional soccer players (mean maximum oxygen uptake: 60.6 (range: 56.0-65.1) ml.min-1.kg-1) were tested twice. The standardized test consisted initially of a field part (6856 m) followed by treadmill running to exhaustion. The relative work rates were 65, 57 and 81% of maximum oxygen uptake during the field test, and during the first and last part of the treadmill running, respectively. The players ingested a diet containing either 39% (C-diet) or 65% carbohydrate (CHO-diet) during the two days prior to each test. The order of the diets was assigned randomly. Neither blood lactate nor glucose concentrations at exhaustion differed after the two diets. The total mean running distance after the CHO-diet was 17.1 km, which was 0.9 km longer (p less than 0.05) than after the C-diet. Nevertheless, three subjects had a difference in running distance of less than 420 m. In contrast to the remaining players, these players had a higher RER-value during treadmill running in association with the CHO-diet. The mean CHO intake of 46% in the normal diet of the players was below the Nordic Nutritional Recommendation. In conclusion, performance during intermittent running was enhanced following the ingestion of a CHO enriched diet for two days. However, not all players benefited from the CHO-diet perhaps because they, in contrast to the other players, responded with a higher utilization of CHO after the CHO-diet. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1555871/
Abstract: We report the effect of weight changes of the type of antihypertensive medication prescribed in a trial of the relative efficacy of drug and dietary measures in mild hypertension. The Trial of Antihypertensive Interventions and Management studied 878 mildly hypertensive individuals randomly assigned, in a 3 x 3 design, to no diet change, weight loss, or a low sodium-high potassium diet and to placebo, 25 mg chlorthalidone, or 50 mg atenolol. The type of drug prescribed affected weight change with all diets. The drug effect on weight change, present in all groups at 6 months, was most pronounced in those randomly assigned to the weight loss diet, where the placebo group lost 4.4 kg, the atenolol group lost 3.0 kg, and the chlorthalidone group lost 6.9 kg. The group differences were attenuated but persisted at 24 months. We suggest that the antihypertensive drug prescribed affects the success of a conjoint weight loss program and speculate that the difference between the drugs may be due to their intrinsic effects on the sympathetic nervous system and related metabolic changes. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1556044/
Abstract: Approximately 49,000 persons in the United States develop bladder cancer each year, and about 9700 die of it. White men face a lifetime risk of almost 3%; white women and black men face a risk of about 1%, and black women, about 0.5%. Cigarette smoking is accepted widely as a cause of bladder cancer. Smoking accounts for about half of bladder cancer diagnosed among men and about one third of that among women. Moderate to heavy smokers typically show a two to five fold risk of bladder cancer, compared with persons who never smoked. When cigarette smokers quit smoking, their bladder cancer risk falls measurably within 2 to 4 years, but probably does not continue to decline with increasing years since quitting and does not appear to return to the baseline level of nonsmokers. Occupational exposure to certain aromatic amines causes human bladder cancer. Clear evidence of bladder cancer risk also is apparent for a small number of occupational groups: dye workers, rubber workers, leather workers, painters, truck drivers, and aluminum workers. Many other occupational groups have been reported to have increased bladder cancer risk, but evidence for these is not as strong. Coffee drinking has been studied extensively as a potential risk factor, but the inconsistency of the observed associations suggests that the relationship is either quite weak, noncausal, or dependent in a complex way on unmeasured factors. Artificial sweeteners confer little or no excess bladder cancer risk. Alcohol consumption apparently does not affect risk either. Consumption of fruits, vegetables, and foods high in vitamin A have been suggested as possible protective factors; consumption of high-fat foods, pork, and beef have been suggested as possible risk factors. Further epidemiologic research is needed to elucidate the role of diet in human bladder carcinogenesis. Less common risk factors for bladder cancer include ionizing radiation, cyclophosphamide use, and abuse of phenacetin-containing analgesics. Schistosomiasis infection may contribute substantially to the bladder cancer burden in Egypt and elsewhere, though not in the United States.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS) 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1555906/
Abstract: Low serum ferritin concentrations are commonly found in female athletes. By studying the effects of an 8-week iron or placebo supplementation in 31 female athletes (aged 17-31 years), with an initial serum ferritin concentration less than or equal to 25 micrograms/l and blood hemoglobin 120 g/l, we investigated whether low serum ferritin values hinder aerobic performance. Serum ferritin concentration increased from 14 (25th and 75th percentile: 11, 21) to 26 (18, 36) micrograms/l in the iron-supplemented group, but remained at a low 11 (9, 17) micrograms/l in the placebo group (group difference after supplementation: p = 0.001). Before supplementation, blood hemoglobin concentration was not different in the two groups. After supplementation, however, the concentration in the iron group was 139 (135, 144) g/l and 128 (126, 134) g/l in the placebo group (group difference: p = 0.001). Iron supplementation did not affect blood lactate concentration or VO2max during an incremental ergometer test. Hence, aerobic performance was not impaired in nonanemic female athletes with serum ferritin 25 micrograms/l. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1556296/
Abstract: A method for quantifying the comminution of an artificial test food (Optosil) was evaluated with respect to its suitability for measurements of masticatory performance in complete-denture wearers. Reference was made to subjects with natural dentitions. The description of particle size distributions generated by complete-denture wearers by a Rosin-Rammler equation was subject to limitations, due to the presence of large proportions of almost-intact particles, which had hardly been damaged or broken during chewing. This finding might be explained by: (i) the relatively high fracture strength of Optosil as compared with natural foods; and (ii) the limitations of complete-denture wearers in exerting bite forces. The particle size distributions obtained after repeated measurements and described by linear interpolation of data points were reproducible. In comparison with young adults with natural dentitions, the denture-wearers needed approximately seven times more chewing strokes to achieve an equivalent reduction in particle size. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1556344/
Abstract: The length of a patient's stay in a hospital is an indication of the patient's recovery rate. Length of hospital stay has also become an important economic factor for hospitals. This is especially true since 1983 as a result of implementation of the Prospective Payment System based on diagnosis-related groups. In this study, the results of routine laboratory tests of nutritional status were examined for relationships between nutritional status and the length of hospital stay. We conducted a retrospective analysis of 163 patients with diverticulosis and diverticulitis of the colon to determine which nutrition assessment parameters are sensitive in predicting recovery rate (length of hospital stay). We found that serum albumin level was negatively correlated with length of hospital stay. Women without gastrointestinal bleeding stayed an average of 20.1 +/- 8.5 days when serum albumin level was 30 g/L or less vs 11.2 +/- 10.5 days when it was greater than 30 g/L. Hemoglobin and/or hematocrit levels were also negatively correlated with length of hospital stay for this group. Women without bleeding stayed an average of 16.4 +/- 13.4 days when the hemoglobin level was 120 g/L or less vs 10.4 +/- 9.1 days when it was greater than 120 g/L. These results suggest that a patient's nutritional status upon admission has an effect on the length of hospital stay for patients with diverticular disease. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1556345/
Abstract: Intense dietary counseling lowered low-density-lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol levels during the recruitment phase of a 5-year clinical trial of men who had undergone coronary artery bypass grafts. At visit 1, a 24-hour dietary recall was obtained and analyzed for intakes of total energy; total, saturated, monounsaturated, and polyunsaturated fat; and dietary cholesterol. Participants were then instructed to follow the National Cholesterol Education Program (NCEP) Step I diet. Additional dietary counseling was provided at 1-month intervals during visits 2 and 3. At visit 3, another 24-hour dietary recall was obtained and analyzed similarly. Of 59 men with an LDL cholesterol level greater than 4.5 mmol/L at visit 1, 52 decreased their level to 4.5 mmol/L or less to qualify for the 5-year study. Between visits 1 and 3, mean LDL cholesterol levels decreased significantly from 4.86 +/- 0.04 mmol/L to 4.27 +/- 0.05 mmol/L, which coincided with significant mean decreases in dietary intake of total fat from 33.4 +/- 1.3% to 25.2 +/- 1.4%, saturated fat from 11.1 +/- 0.6% to 7.0 +/- 0.4%, and dietary cholesterol from 122 +/- 6.1 to 90 +/- 6.3 mg/1,000 kcal. Overall, the dietary intake improved to more closely follow the NCEP Step II diet and resulted in a 10.7% decrease in total cholesterol level and a 12.4% decrease in LDL cholesterol level. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1556348/
Abstract: This article analyzes the 1989 Recommended Dietary Allowance (RDAs) for folate, which are approximately 50% less than the amounts recommended previously. The RDA committee used the following types of data to estimate allowances: (a) the quantity of folate required to elicit established physiologic responses or replace daily losses corrected for bioavailability and individual variability and (b) dietary folate intake data related to prevalence of deficiency in population groups. Some studies cited by the committee evaluated the response to synthetic folate, whereas other studies used dietary folate to estimate folate requirements. Responses to these two forms of folate may differ and depend on the individual's state of folate depletion. The correction for bioavailability is an estimate based on limited data determined by various experimental approaches. Estimates of the folate content of food vary as a function of a number of factors in the method of analysis and the specific type of food consumed. Additional variables include food preparation, food losses, and nutrient interactions. For these reasons, estimates of folate intake based on computer databases may not accurately reflect folate consumed or physiologically/metabolically available folate. Assumptions that current dietary intakes of folate are sufficient to maintain status in the US population were based, in some cases, on data from population surveys not designed to assess folate status. The new RDAs for folate may not provide an adequate safety allowance for specific population groups at risk and should be reevaluated as new information evolves. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1556347/
Abstract: Although a variety of techniques are currently available to measure body composition in human beings, each has limitations with respect to its applicability in addressing nutrition research issues. Several methods "directly" determine an individual's body fat or lean tissue mass with sufficient precision and accuracy such that the data are appropriate for making fine distinctions between individuals or within an individual over time. Such direct methods are most useful in nutritional/metabolic research that requires such distinctions. Each of these techniques will be discussed. There also exist a number of "indirect" measures of body composition. These techniques require more interpretative assumptions and are perhaps better suited to population studies, in which it is often less critical to make fine distinctions between individuals. The appropriate design and interpretation of many nutrition-related research studies depend upon the correct use of body composition data. This review will attempt to help the reader understand the principles of each of the currently available body composition techniques and its optimal use. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1556404/
Abstract: The mechanism by which Mg(OH)2 acts as a laxative is unknown. To explore the mechanism, six volunteers more than 55 years old, with normal bowel habits, were enrolled in a dose-response, randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind, crossover design study. Each subject was studied for four inpatient periods of 5 days each on a metabolic ward with 9 days off of all medication between studies. In the hospital, all patients were on a diet fixed in calories, fluid volume, Na+, fiber, and Ca2+. At 8 p.m. on each study day, each subject took 45 ml containing either placebo or 1,200, 2,400, or 3,600 mg of Mg(OH)2 plus 240 ml of water. On the fourth and fifth hospital days of each period, 24-h stool output was quantified and analyses performed. Compared to placebo, Mg(OH)2 caused the following dose-dependent results: (a) increased number of bowel movements; (b) increased percentage of stool water; (c) increased stool volume; (d) increased stool Mg2+; and (e) increased total stool 24-h prostaglandin E2 (PGE2), with mean 24-h excretions as follow: placebo, 95 +/- 18 pg/24 h; 1,200 mg Mg(OH)2, 260 +/- 100; 2,400 mg Mg(OH)2, 357 +/- 117; and 3,600 mg Mg(OH)2, 525 +/- 196. There was a significant correlation between stool PGE2 excretion and stool water consistent with a causative relationship. However, the concentration of stool prostaglandin was lower than the concentration found to alter intestinal electrolyte transport in vitro. In summary, the laxative effect of Mg(OH)2 is associated with increased output of stool PGE2. The contribution of the stool PGE2 to the laxative effect of Mg(OH)2 is unknown. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1556421/
Abstract: One hundred and nine distance runners participated in a questionnaire survey of bowel function related to running. Thirteen (12%) had had fecal incontinence while running. Sixty-eight (62%) had stopped to have a bowel movement while training. Forty-seven (43%) had "nervous" diarrhea before competition and 13 (12%) had stopped during competition for a bowel movement. Fifty-one (47%) had experienced diarrhea after racing or hard runs and 17 (16%) had seen blood in their stool in the same situations. Runners who had nervous diarrhea before competition were more likely to have symptoms of milk intolerance and irregular bowel function when not exercising, and runners who had symptoms of the irritable bowel syndrome often had to stop for a bowel movement during training. Runners with diarrhea after racing or hard runs frequently experienced severe abdominal cramps, nausea and vomiting, and occasionally, rectal bleeding at the same time. Any form of "runners' diarrhea" was unrelated to age, previous intestinal infection or food poisoning, food allergies, or dietary fiber. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1556385/
Abstract: Relationships have been established between the concentrations of mercury in human scalp hair and environmental or dietary mercury exposures. For chronic exposures, the hair/blood ratio for mercury is in the range 200:1-300:1, and scalp hair mercury concentrations of greater than 5 ppm are indicative of mercury intoxication. These observations, coupled with the ease by which samples may be collected, transported and stored, support the use of hair analysis for evaluating mercury intoxication of the human body. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1556361/
Abstract: Objective:
        
      
      To compare the vitamin D metabolite and nutritional status of institutionalized elderly males with a noninstitutionalized control group. Design:
        
      
      Case-control study. Setting:
        
      
      Veterans Administration Medical Center Nursing Home (NH) in Richmond, Virginia. Patients:
        
      
      Fifty-seven consecutive nursing home subjects were screened. After excluding blacks, those receiving anticonvulsants, glucocorticoids, or vitamin supplements, and those with liver or renal failure (creatinine greater than 1.5 mg/dL), 35 subjects were enrolled, and 22 completed the study. The noninstitutionalized control group (n = 18) consisted of consecutive volunteers, meeting the above criteria, from either a senior citizen group or a geriatric clinic. Measurements and main results:
        
      
      The serum 25-hydroxy-vitamin D level in the NH residents was significantly lower than in community dwellers (17.4 +/- 5.2 ng/mL vs 31.2 pg/mL +/- 8.0 ng/mL, P less than 0.0001). No significant difference was demonstrated in 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D levels (36.5 pg/mL +/- 10.5 in NH residents vs 42.0 pg/mL +/- 11.1 in controls). In the NH group PTH levels were inversely correlated with 25 OHD levels (P less than 0.008) and positively correlated with length of stay in the NH (P less than 0.016). There was no significant seasonal variation in vitamin D metabolite levels in the NH group. In the NH patients, the mean dietary intake of vitamin D was 232 +/- 378 mg/day and of calories was 1811 +/- 447 kcal/day. Conclusion:
        
      
      Despite apparently adequate calories, calcium, and vitamin D intake, hypovitaminosis D with compensatory PTH elevations occurs, regardless of season, in the nursing home population. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1567291/
Abstract: A case history and brief literature review of oral submucous fibrosis is presented. This condition is most frequently found in the Indian subcontinent and only rarely encountered elsewhere. The aetiology is considered to be related to dietary habits and customs found in the population. The condition has a known malignant potential. With increasing migration to Australia from the Indian subcontinent the condition should be known and recognized by clinicians. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1567664/
Abstract: The nutritional component during childhood and adolescence that contributes to variation in adult height may be associated with the subsequent risk of breast cancer in women. Municipalities in three Norwegian counties were ranked and divided in three categories according to resident women's height, where variation in height is assumed to reflect variation in nutritional living conditions during childhood and adolescence. For each county observed number of incident cases (1975-1984) and deaths (1966-1987) of breast cancer in "short", "medium" and "tall" municipalities were compared with the expected number computed from the national rates. An analogous analysis was done, comparing incidence and mortality between 18 Norwegian counties, but using county-specific infant mortality for the period 1921-1935 as an alternative indicator of living conditions. There was a consistent positive association between height in municipalities and breast cancer incidence (overall P trend = 0.02) and mortality (overall P trend = 0.05). For infant mortality between counties, there was no association with breast cancer. In populations where variation in height reflects variation in nutritional living conditions during childhood and adolescence, there may be a positive association between height and risk and mortality of breast cancer. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1567711/
Abstract: Retrospective study on 617 foreign bodies (FB) located in the upper digestive tract in the years 1981, 1988 and 1989. Of them pertain 541 to adults (greater than 14 years) and 76 to children (less than or equal to 14 years). The youngest was a girl aged 11 months and the oldest, a male aged 98. In adults, the most frequently encountered FB was impacted food. In children, coins. Clinical findings in adults were mainly dysphagia or FB sensation. In children it is more frequent that another person sees the child swallowing or notices the absence of any object. In adults, its most frequent location was Killian's recess. In children it was the stomach. The removal was achieved in 96% of adults and 100% of children. There weren't any serious complications and mild ones were 0.55%. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1567345/
Abstract: In the present study, the authors tested whether an increase in salivation is associated with an increase in subjectively experienced hunger. After conditioning, subjects showed a significant increase in salivation flow. Hunger levels, however, were significantly decreased after conditioning. No correlation was found between salivation flow and hunger levels. It is argued that salivation responses and subjectively experienced hunger are loosely coupled systems. Salivation flow reflects the learning history of a subject which may sometimes be paralleled by a biological state which is called hunger, whereas, at other times, hunger may be absent. The authors conclude that conditioning of preparatory responses such as salivation depends on the probability relationship between exposure to cues (CSs) and food intake (US), as well as the intensity of the US. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1567237/
Abstract: Diethyl phosphate (DEP), an organophosphate metabolite, was found in the urine of symptomatic residents who resided in a household that had been sprayed with diazinon 4.5 mo earlier. Pre- and post-decontamination data with regard to symptoms, DEP, cholinesterase, and surface and air levels underscore the utility of alkyl phosphate metabolites for monitoring exposure. The data also emphasize the efficacy of clean-up measures when baseline data are not available to determine if "within-normal" cholinesterase levels are, in fact, depressed. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1567285/
Abstract: Chironomidae larvae and midges cause allergic reactions in approximately 20 percent of exposed people; predominantly aquarists using insect larvae as fish food and environmentally exposed subjects living in areas abounding in water are affected. Our studies include 642 subjects of whom 205 are aquarists; 85 are occupationally and 352 environmentally exposed people. 123 of them were shown to be sensitized to these insects. Using highly purified allergens, we could demonstrate that Chironomidae hemoglobins (Chi t I) represent the major allergenic components causing rhinitis, conjunctivitis and bronchial asthma. Considerable immunological cross-reactivity exists between hemoglobins of the same and closely related Chironomidae species. Genetic factors seem to be important for the susceptibility of this type of allergy. In studies with peptides of Chi t I component III, we identified several epitopes recognized by human IgE antibodies and/or T-cells. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1567927/
Abstract: Plasma manganese levels were determined at birth and then serially to 3 months of age in 40 very low birth weight (VLBW) infants (mean birth weight 1,027 g). Mean plasma manganese concentration was 3.6 micrograms/l at birth and 3.0 micrograms/l at 3 months of age. These levels were approximately 3-fold greater than those of a group of 9 adults analysed using the same methods (mean 1.1 micrograms/l). Manganese was also measured in parenteral nutrition fluids, breast milk and 3 preterm formulas. There was no relationship between manganese intake and plasma manganese concentration. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1567968/
Abstract: Aim:
        
      
      To investigate dietary intake patterns among school-students. Design:
        
      
      An observational prospective study. A dietary survey was used to establish how many times habitual foods were eaten each week. SITE. The population of the northern half of the city of Soria. (North Soria Health Centre). Participants:
        
      
      All the school-children aged 6 and 7 (74 boys and 57 girls in both the private and public sectors) took part in the programme. Measurements and main findings:
        
      
      The intake of foodstuffs was stratified as greatest in quartiles. The consumers of sweet "junk" foods also ate significantly more savory "junk" food (p = 0.00009). We found and inverse consumption relationship between savory "junk" foods and an intake of greens and root-crops (p = 0.03) and of pasta and rice (p = 0.008). The lower consumption of greens and fruits was linked to a lower consumption of fish (p = 0.023), to a lower consumption of meat (p = 0.037) and of meat products (p = 0.008). Lower consumption of eggs was linked to a greater consumption of meat (p = 0.016) and fish (p = 0.029). Conclusions:
        
      
      The consumption of savory "junk" foods and meat products can replace nutrients of a high biological value which are found in greens and root-crops. New studies to deepen the taxonomical analysis of the school diet are required. These should identify eating patterns which could endanger health in adult life. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1568232/
Abstract: A rapid and flexible model system has been developed to study human enamel behaviour under conditions of oscillating pH similar to those experienced in the mouth. The model uses realistic time intervals and operates at in vivo temperatures (35-37 degrees C). Mineral loss or gain is measured quantitatively on a volume basis. Results indicate that for single 1-day periods with three 20-min exposures to acid, 1% v/v of enamel mineral was lost. These results, together with the histological appearance of the tissue, are in close agreement with previous studies of enamel caries. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1568026/
Abstract: A food intake-frequency survey using a 7-day weighted inventory questionnaire was conducted among 2165 healthy men aged from 18 to 85 living in Nagano Prefecture. The effect of ethanol consumption on the intake of 12 different groups of food (cereals, potatoes, sugar, confectioneries, fruit, vegetables, soybean and its products, eggs, milk and dairy products, fish, meat, and oils), on the intake of macronutrients (carbohydrate, protein and fat), on the total energy intake including and excluding energy from ethanol, and on the energy percentage from carbohydrate, protein and fat, were analyzed. As ethanol consumption increased, the intake of cereals and confectioneries was found to markedly decrease, and that of potatoes, sugar, fruit, vegetables, milk and dairy products, and oils to decrease to a lesser extent. In contrast, the intake of meat increased with increasing ethanol consumption. The intake of carbohydrate, vegetable protein and fat decreased with increase in ethanol consumption in the following order: carbohydrate greater than vegetable protein = vegetable fat. As ethanol consumption increased, total energy intake including energy from ethanol increased, but the energy excluding ethanol decreased. The energy percentage contributed by carbohydrate, vegetable protein, and vegetable and animal fat decreased with increase of ethanol consumption: the extent of the decrease was most prominent in energy from carbohydrate, followed by vegetable fat, animal fat and vegetable protein in decreasing order. These results suggest that people have a tendency to consume less carbohydrate, especially cereals, when increasing ethanol consumption. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1568142/
Abstract: This article reviews basic physiologic principles governing fluids in spaces. Starling's law is presented, and its interpolation into a dynamic clinical setting is discussed. These principles are further described through a case presentation. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1568044/
Abstract: A 35-yr-old woman, who suffered from relapsing coma with hyperammonemia for 17 yr, was diagnosed to have lysinuric protein intolerance (LPI). Increased urinary dibasic amino acids (lysine, arginine and ornithine) and impaired absorption of orally administered lysine and arginine proved the defects of renal tubular and intestinal transport of dibasic amino acids. These defects are the primary cause of impaired urea cycle metabolism in LPI. Further, the level of argininosuccinate synthetase (ASS), a urea cycle enzyme, was analyzed and it was found to be below the normal level. This is the second reported case of LPI presenting ASS deficiency. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1568234/
Abstract: Fluoride analyses of baby foods were carried out using a microdiffusion technique, which was found to be reproducible and accurate with less than 8% error. Analysis of 113 baby foods and drinks showed a wide range of fluoride concentrations: 0.01-0.31 mg F/kg for baby milk products; 0.04-0.72 mg F/kg for meat products; 0.04-0.70 mg F/kg for cereals; 0.03-0.48 mg F/kg for vegetable products; 0.03-0.07 mg F/kg for fruits; 0.02-0.28 mg F/kg for desserts, and 0.01-0.51 mg F/l for baby drinks. None of the baby foods and drinks contained fluoride of a sufficiently high concentration to be of concern or likely to contribute to enamel mottling, when used in the normal way. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1568041/
Abstract: The patient, an 18-yr-old male (admission ht 153 cm, wt 30 kg), had been suffering from growth arrest and intermittent abdominal pain since he was 13 yr old, which was left untreated. Examinations on admission disclosed almost normal pituitary function, while levels of testosterone and somatomedin C were low. Roentgenological examination revealed extensive skip-stenotic lesions and longitudinal ulcers in the ileum, diagnostic of Crohn's disease. Therapy involving high-caloric parenteral and enteral alimentation resulted in a marked increase in both ht and wt, and improvement in roentgenological and colonoscopical findings. The interrelation between Crohn's disease and malnutrition with reference to some reports in the literature is discussed. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1568235/
Abstract: Chronic protein-energy malnutrition during the period of growth and development causes permanent disturbances of salivary gland function and tooth structure. Moderate protein-energy deficiency also causes impaired saliva secretion rate and composition in the adult rat. These impairments have been shown to coincide with an increased incidence of dental caries. In the present investigation we studied the effect of chronic malnutrition on saliva secretion rate and susceptibility to dental caries in Indian children. It was found that chronic malnutrition reduced the secretion rate of stimulated saliva, but not that of unstimulated saliva. The salivary buffer capacity was continuously decreased as the secretion rate decreased with the level of malnutrition in the Indian children. The malnourished children developed increased caries. Thus, it could be concluded that chronic malnutrition in growing children enhances the cariogenic potential stemming from fermentable carbohydrates. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1568233/
Abstract: In this paper, data are presented on the in situ demineralization of human enamel as a function of the demineralization period. To quantify the mineral loss parameters versus time, it is important to obtain information on the kinetics, and thus on the mechanism of dental caries. The results show that for in situ enamel demineralization, the lesion depth as well as the mineral loss parameter both vary linearly with the demineralization time. This is in contrast to in vitro lesion formation where the third power, or the square power of the lesion depth is linearly related to the demineralization time. In in situ demineralization, the rate-determining step of the demineralization process is the inhibitor-controlled dissolution process at the enamel crystallite surfaces, while the inhibitor content (F-, proteins etc.) in the lesion originating from the plaque, saliva and enamel is high. Furthermore, the study indicates that in in situ demineralization, interprismatic mineral loss is very important. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1568275/
Abstract: Acute lower respiratory tract infections (ALRIs) are a major cause of death among young children in developing countries. A targeted programme designed to treat children with ALRI was implemented in 1988 in a primary health care project in rural Bangladesh. In the 2 years preceding the introduction of the programme (1986-87), non-ALRI-specific health services were provided, including promotion of oral rehydration therapy, family planning, immunization of children and mothers, distribution of vitamin A, referral of severely sick children to field clinics, and nutritional rehabilitation of malnourished children. The targeted ALRI programme, which was in place in 1988-89, was based on systematic ALRI case detection and management by community health workers, who were linked to a referral system for medical support. These two levels of intervention have been evaluated by comparing the ALRI-specific mortality in the programme area and a neighbouring control area during the two periods. During the first phase (1986-87), the ALRI mortality among under-5-year-olds was 28% lower in the intervention than in the comparison area (P less than 0.01). During the second phase (1988-89), the ALRI mortality was 32% lower in the intervention area than during the preceding phase, while there was no significant difference for the comparison area. These findings suggest that in the study region the combination of specific and nonspecific interventions can reduce ALRI mortality by as much as 50% and the overall mortality among under-5-year-olds by as much as 30%. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1568366/
Abstract: The object of the present research was to study the effect of dexfenfluramine (d-F) and placebo (P) on compliance with dietary treatment, especially as far as changes in kcal and macronutrient intake are concerned. A double-blind study d-F vs P was performed in 36 obese females, age range 20-59 years (mean 37.22 +/- 12.41), with a mean BMI of 33.95 +/- 5.36, suffering from obesity due to overeating without complications: Outpatient control every 30 days. The study protocol provided for a 14-month double-blind treatment with daily administration of either P (2 capsules) or d-F (two 15 mg capsules). Dietary prescription of 1200 kcal (5016 kJ) was given 15 days before enrollment (T/0) and during this period enrollment criteria were checked prior to randomization. Dietary intake was checked by a three-day recall (one working day, one half-holiday and one full holiday) in basal conditions and after 6-12 and 14 months. Administration of d-F and P brought about changes in alimentary behaviour in obese patients according to the dietary regime prescribed. In our patients, no highly significant differences between d-F and P were observed; however, the effect of P on macronutrient intake (carbohydrates, lipids and proteins) tended to peter out around the 12th month. Treatment with d-F reduced the consumption of simple carbohydrates, animal fats but not of animal proteins. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1568369/
Abstract: The paper aims to evaluate the effects of metadoxine on liver function tests in chronic alcohol abusers without a clear alcohol dependence, by means of an open trial carried out in 7 hospitals in Tuscany. The study comprised 72 patients with a daily alcohol intake of at least 80 g for men and 30 g for women, over a period of at least 5 years. The patients were urgently requested to stop drinking, and were randomly divided into 2 groups, of which the first (52 subjects) was treated with metadoxine (500 mg twice a day) and the second (20 subjects) received only some vitamins. Interviews and blood tests were performed 1 and 2 months after the trial began. Statistical calculations were made using the chi-square and Student's tests. Metadoxine induced a more rapid reduction of SGOT and SGPT and, possibly, of Gammagt; these effects were especially evident, and were associated with a significant reduction of MCV, in 20 patients (12 in the first group and 8 in the second) in whom blood test abnormalities were greatest. No unfavorable side effects were observed that could be attributed to the drug. Metadoxine can therefore be considered a valuable resource in the treatment of alcoholic liver disease. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1568516/
Abstract: Triceps skin fold, arm muscular performance and fatigue were quantified, haematocrit measured and haemoglobin, serum total protein, albumin, transferrin, zinc and copper concentrations determined in 60 patients (36 women, 24 men) before and 3-45 days after surgery. On days 3 and 9 after surgery, there was a significant (P less than 0.05) decrease in serum zinc concentrations but by 45 days concentrations had return to pre-operative values. In contrast, serum copper concentrations were significantly (P less than 0.05) elevated until day 45. Haematocrit and haemoglobin and albumin concentrations were decreased significantly (P less than 0.05) 3 and 9 days after surgery, whereas serum total protein concentrations remained significantly (P less than 0.05) lower for 45 days compared with concentrations prior to surgery. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1568535/
Abstract: Dietary medium-chain triglycerides (MCT) may improve insulin-mediated glucose metabolism. To examine this possibility, 10 non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (NIDDM) patients, 4 hypertriglyceridemic, and 6 normotriglyceridemic nondiabetic control subjects were examined with a 5-day cross-over design, in which the short-term metabolic effects of a 40% fat diet containing 77.5% of fat calories as MCT were compared with an isocaloric long-chain triglyceride-containing diet. In diabetic patients, MCT failed to alter fasting serum glucose concentrations but reduced preprandial glycemic excursions by 45% (F = 7.9, P less than 0.01). On MCT, the amount of glucose needed to maintain euglycemia during an intravenous insulin infusion was increased in diabetic subjects by 30%, in hypertriglyceridemic subjects by 30%, and in normotriglyceridemic control subjects by 17%. MCT increased mean +/- SE insulin-mediated glucose disposal (4.52 +/- 0.56 vs. 2.89 +/- 0.21 mg.kg-1.min-1; n = 3, P less than 0.05) but failed to alter basal glucose metabolism or insulin-mediated suppression of hepatic glucose output. Metabolic responses to MCT were observed independent of sulfonylurea therapy or severity of fasting hyperglycemia. No change in fasting serum insulin or triglyceride concentrations were seen with MCT administration. Although MCT increased mean fasting serum beta-hydroxybutyrate levels from 0.10 +/- 0.03 to 0.26 +/- 0.06 mM (P less than 0.05) in normotriglyceridemic nondiabetic subjects, no change was seen in diabetic patients. Thus, MCT-containing diets increased insulin-mediated glucose metabolism in both diabetic patients and nondiabetic subjects. In diabetic subjects, this effect appears to be mediated by increases in insulin-mediated glucose disposal.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS) 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1568560/
Abstract: The effect of continuous intraduodenal enteral nutrition on gastric pH was compared with the effects of fasting and of parenteral and standard nutrition control regimens containing equal amounts of carbohydrate, protein, and lipid. Eleven healthy volunteers underwent four 24-hour intragastric pH-metry studies; serum glucose, calcium, immunoreactive insulin and gastrin levels were determined during fasting and enteral and parenteral regimens. Median 24-hour gastric pH during enteral nutrition (group median pH 1.4) was lower than during parenteral nutrition (pH 1.9; P = 0.0039 vs. enteral) but was not different from fasting (pH 1.4) or standard nutrition (pH 1.6) values. Median 24-hour serum glucose levels during enteral nutrition (group median, 4.8 mmol/L) were higher than during fasting (4.0 mmol/L; P = 0.00098 vs. enteral) and lower than during parenteral nutrition (5.3 mmol/L; P = 0.0039 vs. enteral). Median 24-hour serum insulin levels during enteral nutrition (group median, 22.9 mU/L) were higher than during fasting (group median, 9.2 mU/L; P = 0.00098 vs. enteral) but similar to levels during parenteral nutrition (23.3 mU/L). Neither median 24-hour gastrin levels nor calcium levels were affected by any nutrition regimen. Thus, continuous enteral nutrition produces gastric pH values similar to those seen with fasting or standard nutrition, suggesting that, under most physiological conditions, gastric acidity is subject to close feedback control. Parenteral nutrition increases gastric pH, suggesting that systemic nutrients may influence this feedback mechanism. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1568556/
Abstract: In premature infants, a nutritionally significant proportion of lactose is apparently fermented in the colon to acetate. To estimate the rate of entry of acetate into the peripheral circulation, a model that takes into account extraction of gut-derived acetate by splanchnic and hepatic tissues was developed. Using a [1-13C]acetate orogastric infusion technique, six studies were carried out on five premature infants during constant orogastric feeding. Ranges in gestational age, postnatal age, and breath H2 concentration (corrected for CO2 content) were 28-32 weeks, 16-29 days, and 45-252 microL/L, respectively. The estimated rate of entry of acetic acid (mean +/- SD) was 63.7 +/- 33.8 mumol.kg-1.min-1 (range, 22.9-123.2 mumol.kg-1.min-1), which corresponded to 64.3% +/- 38.6% (24%-136%) of the potential two carbon units from dietary lactose. Thus, a substantial fraction of dietary lactose in premature infants may be converted to acetic acid; this conversion could have a significant effect on protein as well as energy requirements. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1568526/
Abstract: To examine the mechanisms of hyperglycemia-induced insulin resistance, eight insulin-dependent (type I) diabetic men were studied twice, after 24 h of hyperglycemia (mean blood glucose 20.0 +/- 0.3 mM, i.v. glucose) and after 24 h of normoglycemia (7.1 +/- 0.4 mM, saline) while receiving identical diets and insulin doses. Whole-body and forearm glucose uptake were determined during a 300-min insulin infusion (serum free insulin 359 +/- 22 and 373 +/- 29 pM, after hyper- and normoglycemia, respectively). Muscle biopsies were taken before and at the end of the 300-min insulin infusion. Plasma glucose levels were maintained constant during the 300-min period by keeping glucose for 150 min at 16.7 +/- 0.1 mM after 24-h hyperglycemia and increasing it to 16.5 +/- 0.1 mM after normoglycemia and by allowing it thereafter to decrease in both studies to normoglycemia. During the normoglycemic period (240-300 min), total glucose uptake (25.0 +/- 2.8 vs. 33.8 +/- 3.9 mumol.kg-1 body wt.min-1, P less than 0.05) was 26% lower, forearm glucose uptake (11 +/- 4 vs. 18 +/- 3 mumol.kg-1 forearm.min-1, P less than 0.05) was 35% lower, and nonoxidative glucose disposal (8.9 +/- 2.2 vs. 19.4 +/- 3.3 mumol.kg-1 body wt-1min-1, P less than 0.01) was 54% lower after 24 h of hyper- and normoglycemia, respectively. Glucose oxidation rates were similar. Basal muscle glycogen content was similar after 24 h of hyperglycemia (234 +/- 23 mmol/kg dry muscle) and normoglycemia (238 +/- 22 mmol/kg dry muscle). Insulin increased muscle glycogen to 273 +/- 22 mmol/kg dry muscle after 24 h of hyperglycemia and to 296 +/- 33 mmol/kg dry muscle after normoglycemia (P less than 0.05 vs. 0 min for both). Muscle ATP, free glucose, glucose-6-phosphate, and fructose-6-phosphate concentrations were similar after both 24-h treatment periods and did not change in response to insulin. We conclude that a marked decrease in whole-body, muscle, and nonoxidative glucose disposal can be induced by hyperglycemia alone. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1578963/
Abstract: The ever-increasing body of information regarding the molecular pathogenesis of sickle cell disease has raised expectations that a specific and effective therapy could be devised to inhibit polymerization of hemoglobin S. Despite an intense international research effort, this goal has not yet been realized. Supportive care continues to be the mainstay in the management of patients with sickle cell anemia. Empiric measures were used in early attempts to treat sickle cell anemia. Herrick reported gratifying improvement after "rest, nourishing food, the administration of iodide, arsenic, thymol and the application of boric ointment to leg ulcers." Many of these suggestions are similar to those of today. Several factors have significantly improved the prognosis of patients with this disease. Improved medical care, genetic counseling, and universal neonatal screening have directly resulted in improved outcome. Molecular biologic techniques have allowed us to approach this disease in a pathophysiologic way. Now we can envision antenatal diagnosis with the use of molecular probes and treatment by gene amplification. Still, however, the most important and challenging link in the chain between the biology of the disease and the clinical sequelae is an astute and interested physician who must remain objective at all times. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1579064/
Abstract: Curcumin, the active principle of turmeric, is known to act as an anti-oxidant, anti-mutagen and anti-carcinogen in experimental animals. In the present study, anti-mutagenic effects of turmeric were assessed in 16 chronic smokers. It was observed that turmeric, given in doses of 1.5 g/day for 30 days, significantly reduced the urinary excretion of mutagens in smokers. In contrast, in six non-smokers, who served as control, there was no change in the urinary excretion of mutagens after 30 days. Turmeric had no significant effect on serum aspartate aminotransferase and alanine aminotransferase, blood glucose, creatinine and lipid profile. These results indicate that dietary turmeric is an effective anti-mutagen and it may be useful in chemoprevention. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1579263/
Abstract: The placenta participates by metabolism, and not simply by transport to and from the fetus, in providing fetal needs for several amino acids, including leucine, glutamine, glutamate, serine, and glycine. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1579153/
Abstract: One of the most practical solutions to combat protein energy malnutrition (PEM) in low income groups is the intelligent mixing of cereals and legumes to make available low cost weaning foods of high nutritional quality. One of the main obstacles to increase energy and nutrient density of weaning foods of cereals and legumes is the bulk factor. In this study some simple methods of home processing to improve the nutritional quality of the home prepared weaning foods were tested and the processed weaning foods were chemically and biologically evaluated. Biochemical evaluation revealed that the germination of wheat raised its protein and fat and reduced carbohydrate, while ther was almost no change on lentils. Comparing germination with a special "chapati" process, protein and fat content wee higher in the formula processed by the former method, while minerals were higher in the same formula but processed by the latter method. Biological evaluation of the formula processed by the two different methods showed that germination got the highest PER and NPU compared with chapati process figures were (2.02 and 81.0) and (1.70 and 40.0) respectively. Although further research is needed, germination of ingredients of weaning foods of vegetable origin seems to be a good option of the simple home processing technique. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1579114/
Abstract: Crystalline botulinum toxin type A was licensed in December 1989 by the Food and Drug Administration for treatment of certain spasmodic muscle disorders following 10 or more years of experimental treatment on human volunteers. Botulinum toxin exerts its action on a muscle indirectly by blocking the release of the neurotransmitter acetylcholine at the nerve ending, resulting in reduced muscle activity or paralysis. The injection of only nanogram quantities (1 ng = 30 mouse 50% lethal doses [U]) of the toxin into a spastic muscle is required to bring about the desired muscle control. The type A toxin produced in anaerobic culture and purified in crystalline form has a specific toxicity in mice of 3 x 10(7) U/mg. The crystalline toxin is a high-molecular-weight protein of 900,000 Mr and is composed of two molecules of neurotoxin (ca. 150,000 Mr) noncovalently bound to nontoxic proteins that play an important role in the stability of the toxic unit and its effective toxicity. Because the toxin is administered by injection directly into neuromuscular tissue, the methods of culturing and purification are vital. Its chemical, physical, and biological properties as applied to its use in medicine are described. Dilution and drying of the toxin for dispensing causes some detoxification, and the mouse assay is the only means of evaluation for human treatment. Other microbial neurotoxins may have uses in medicine; these include serotypes of botulinum toxins and tetanus toxin. Certain neurotoxins produced by dinoflagellates, including saxitoxin and tetrodotoxin, cause muscle paralysis through their effect on the action potential at the voltage-gated sodium channel. Saxitoxin used with anaesthetics lengthens the effect of the anaesthetic and may enhance the effectiveness of other medical drugs. Combining toxins with drugs could increase their effectiveness in treatment of human disease. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1578961/
Abstract: In evaluating pregnant women with anemia, it is essential to do a complete history and physical examination, as well as a complete blood count with indices and a blood smear examination. Based on these findings, other tests such as ferritin and serum or red cell folate may be ordered. Because of the normal physiologic changes in pregnancy that affect the hematocrit, indices, and some other parameters, diagnosing true anemia, as well as the etiology of anemia, is challenging. Because of the increased nutritional requirements of the mother and fetus, the most common anemias are iron deficiency anemia and folate deficiency megaloblastic anemia. These anemias are more common in women who have inadequate diets and who are not receiving prenatal iron and folate supplements. Other less common causes of acquired anemia in pregnancy are aplastic anemia and hemolytic anemia associated with preeclampsia. In addition, congenital anemias such as sickle cell disease can impact on the health of the mother and fetus. Obviously, severe anemia has adverse effects on the mother and the fetus. There is also evidence that less severe anemia is associated with poor pregnancy outcome. The cause of this association has yet to be elucidated. It is important, however, to diagnose and treat anemia in pregnancy to provide for optimal health of the mother and infant. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1579269/
Abstract: Space flight exposes humans to a hostile, stressful environment as well as to the weightlessness associated with microgravity. The stresses of space travel affect nutritional balance, as evidenced by interrelated changes in body composition, energy utilization, and endocrine function. The limited data gathered thus far suggest that space flight incurs acute decreases in fluid mass and chronic, ongoing changes in muscle and bone mass. Concurrent with these changes is an increase in energy used per unit body mass. Other preliminary data suggest that bed rest and space flight may incur increased sensitivity to insulin. Further research is needed to determine the human energy and protein requirements for space, as well as a means of quantifying changes in body composition during extended-duration space flight. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1579512/
Abstract: Cow's Milk Protein Intolerance (CMPI) is the most common food intolerance in childhood. The I, III and IV type of the immunological mechanisms are involved in the pathogenesis. Nowadays there are no diagnostic tests with good reliability excluding the IgE-mediated clinical pictures. Recently the evaluation of antibodies (IgA and IgG classes) versus milk proteins has been proposed as reliable test. In order to establish the pattern of antibody response against milk proteins we studied 37 children (17 males and 20 females), aged from 3 months to 6 years, divided as follows: 23 with CMPI of which 16 suffering from gastrointestinal complaints (GI) and 7 from cutaneous ones (CT); 5 children with coeliac disease; 9 normal healthy children without any clinical manifestation. All children at the time of the assessment assuming a diet containing cow's milk proteins. IgA, IgG and IgM antibody classes against cow's milk proteins such as alpha-lactoalbumin (alpha LA), beta-lactoglobulin (beta LG), casein (CAS) and pooled proteins (PPL) were measured using an ELISA method. The results obtained in the various groups were as follows: CMPI-GI group: the percentage of positivity for alpha LA-IgA was 43.8% and alpha LA-IgG 68.7%, for beta LG-IgA was 50% and beta LG-IgG 75%, for CAS-IgA was 43.8% and CAS-IgG 68.7%, for PPL-IgA was 37.5% and PPL-IgG 62.5%. CMPI-CT group: the percentage of positivity for alpha LA-IgA was 42.8% and alpha LA-IgG 57.1%, for beta LG-IgA was 71.4% and beta LG-IgG 42.8%, for CAS-IgA and CAS-IgG was 85.7%, for PPL-IgA was 71.4% and PPL-IgG 57.1%.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS) 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1579398/
Abstract: Aluminum toxicity is associated with the development of bone disorders, including fractures, osteopenia, and osteomalacia. Fifty-one infants with a mean (+/- SEM) birth weight of 1007 +/- 34 g, gestational age of 28.5 +/- 0.3 weeks, and serial radiographic documentation at 3, 6, 9, and 12 months for the presence (n = 16) or absence (n = 35) of fractures and/or rickets were studied at the same intervals to determine the serial changes in serum aluminum concentrations and urine aluminum-creatinine ratios. Autopsy bone samples were used to determine the presence of tissue aluminum. Serum aluminum concentrations from 46 infants were stable and similar between groups, with mean values between 15 and 22 micrograms/L. Urine aluminum-creatinine (micrograms per milligram) ratios from 14 infants were higher in infants with fractures and/or rickets (0.26 +/- 0.06 vs 0.12 +/- 0.04) at onset, and rate of decrease in aluminum-creatinine ratio was faster in infants without fractures and/or rickets. All but three infants were tolerating complete enteral feeding at all sampling points. One infant who received aluminum-containing antacid had marked increase in serum aluminum to 83 micrograms/L while urine aluminum-creatinine ratio increased from 0.09 to a peak of 8.53. Vertebrae from three infants at autopsy (full enteral feeding was tolerated for 37 and 41 days in two infants, respectively) showed aluminum deposition in the zone of provisional calcification and along the newly formed trabecula.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS) 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1579405/
Abstract: The reduction of dietary cholesterol and fat lowers low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) and reduces risk of coronary heart disease in adults. The purpose of this study was to determine the individual variability of response of serum lipid and lipoprotein levels to a low-fat, low-cholesterol diet in children with elevated LDL-C levels. Thirty-two children (2 to 16 years of age) enrolled in a diet modification program, who had LDL-C levels of at least 110 mg/dL but normal triglyceride levels for their ages, were studied. Lipid levels and dietary nutrients were analyzed at the time of admission, and final assessments were made at least 3 months after entry. There was a significant correlation, for the group as a whole, between change in LDL-C concentration and change in grams of dietary saturated fat; however, there was marked individual variability in LDL-C response. There were no significant correlations between changes in LDL-C levels and changes in either total fat, polyunsaturated fat, or cholesterol intake. It is concluded that modest decreases in dietary saturated fat coincide with a lowering of LDL-C concentration, over a short term, in many children, but the degree of lowering varies considerably from one child to another. This variability is consistent with the concept that response of serum lipid levels to dietary changes is modified by genetic, metabolic, and other, as of yet, undefined variables. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1579514/
Abstract: Coeliac disease is the most frequent cause of chronic diarrhea (1:1000 children) in Italy. It often has atypical symptoms, so a sensitive and specific test is needed that can both simplify the ESPGAM criteria and monitor compliance of patients to their gluten free diet. The AEmA (anti endomysium antibody), found by Chorzelsky in 1984, appears to be a very sensitive and specific screening test in the diagnosis of coeliac disease (CD). Sera from 150 children, mean age 4 years (range 6 months to 20 years) were tested for endomysium antibodies (IgA class) and anti gliadin antibodies (IgG class). From our preliminary study IgA-AEmA seem to be more specific for CD than IgG class anti-gliaadin antibodies. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/5504370/
Abstract: In 12 normal subjects plasma calcium and phosphorus concentrations were estimated during a normal working day. In the individual subjects fluctuations from the fasting values occurred during the period of study, but at no time during that period did the mean values differ significantly from the fasting plasma calcium or phosphorus concentrations. In three of the subjects the study was repeated while fasting during a normal working day. In these subjects the fluctuations in both plasma calcium and phosphorus concentrations were less than during a normal day while taking meals, and there was evidence of a diurnal variation in the plasma phosphorus concentration. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1586055/
Abstract: The clearance rate of inhaled aerosols of technetium-99m-labeled diethylenetriamine pentaacetic acid (99mTc-DTPA) from the lungs provides a rapid, clinically useful, noninvasive index of pulmonary epithelial permeability. In order to identify a method that minimizes intrasubject and intersubject variability and thereby provides a reliable means to identify patients with abnormal values, we administered a submicronic aerosol of 99mTc-DTPA to 10 healthy, nonsmoking male subjects with either tidal breathing (Vtidal) or multiple vital capacity maneuvers (VVC). Subjects then spontaneously breathed room air while counting continued for 30 min. Monoexponential clearance rates over 7, 15, and 30 min were compared with a two-compartment, biexponential analysis over 30 min. Intrasubject reproducibility was evaluated by repeating clearance 2 to 156 days later. Monoexponential clearance following VVC at 30 min equaled 1.36 +/- 0.55%/min compared with 0.83 +/- 0.25%/min for Vtidal (p less than 0.025). VVC inhalations resulted in a larger fast compartment of 16 +/- 12% compared with 3 +/- 2% with tidal breathing (p less than 0.01). The least intrasubject variability with coefficient of variation (CV) of +/- 18% was obtained with monoexponential analyses after Vtidal during 15 min of scanning and with either breathing maneuver over 30 min. Monoexponential clearance for 30 min with Vtidal gave the least scatter between subjects, with CV of +/- 30%. These data show that simple tidal inhalations of 99mTc-DTPA followed by a monoexponential analysis of the 30-min time-activity curve from both lungs minimize the degree of variability between and among subjects and provide a predicted normal value of clearance of 0.83 +/- 0.25%/min. The development of a more rapid curvilinear clearance followed by delivery VVC suggests that several deep breaths transiently increase epithelial permeability or reduce the volume of liquid in the alveolar subphase in some regions. Resting for 20 min prior to inhaling the aerosol of 99mTc-DTPA is recommended to avoid alterations in clearance rates from deep breathing. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1586185/
Abstract: Forty three infants under 1400 g were fed by a bolus nasogastric, continuous nasogastric, or transpyloric route. There were more complications with transpyloric feeding and no identifiable benefits in the growth rate, oral energy input, or chosen biochemical indices of nutrition. Bolus or continuous nasogastric feeds rather than transpyloric are better routine methods in infants of low birth weight. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1586008/
Abstract: We investigated abnormal responses of the autonomic nervous system and measured plasma histamine levels before and after exercise challenge following food ingestion in four patients with food-dependent exercise-induced anaphylaxis. The patients' histories and the radioallergosorbent tests showed that food-dependent exercise-induced anaphylaxis resulted from preexercise-ingestion of shrimp, hen's egg, and any food in two patients, one patient and one patient, respectively. The plasma histamine level increased in only one of four patients when the exercise challenge followed the ingestion of nonoffending foods. Our investigation of changes in the autonomic nervous system before and after food-exercise challenge in all patients included comparing results obtained after the food-exercise challenge in controls and comparing results obtained before food-exercise challenge in the patients. After food-exercise challenge, systolic blood pressure significantly decreased and the heart rate increased during the postural test, heart rate tended to decrease in the Aschner test, and the increase of systolic blood pressure was reduced in the cold pressor test. After food-exercise challenge, the parasympathetic nervous activity increased and responsiveness of the sympathetic nervous system was reduced. Food-dependent exercise-induced anaphylaxis may therefore occur in relation to allergic reactions and abnormality of the autonomic nervous system. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1586360/
Abstract: From a recent theory on the learned nature of craving responses and binge eating, it follows that craving will extinguish when the CS-US bond is broken by prolonged exposure to the cues predicting excessive food intake with response prevention. The present authors treated six obese bulimics with cue exposure and response prevention. Six other patients learned to avoid or escape the binge-related cues with the aid of self control techniques. Although both treatments appeared to be effective in reducing the binge frequency, a most remarkable finding of the present study is that all patients treated by cue exposure were abstinent, directly after treatment and during the 1 yr follow-up. In contrast to the 100% binge-free subjects treated by cue exposure, self control techniques and relapse prevention led to abstinence in merely 33% of the subjects. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1585965/
Abstract: Background:
        
      
      Two types of data may be used to estimate trends in food and nutrient intake by the US population: per capita food supply estimates and survey estimates of individual intake. Because these data vary markedly in measurement goals and methods, we examined whether trends in food supply and survey intake estimates for fat, carbohydrate, and protein are reflective of one another. Methods:
        
      
      The data selected for comparison included all available survey estimates of mean intake by the US population (i.e., periodic estimates from 1965 to 1988) and all available per capita food supply estimates from a comparable time period (i.e., annual estimates from 1965 to 1985). Results:
        
      
      The two types of data generally did not reflect the same trends. Furthermore, expressing macronutrient levels as percentage of calories rather than in grams affected the trend relationships. Conclusions:
        
      
      Our findings indicate that caution is needed in the selection and application of available data to estimate trends in macronutrient intake by the US population and in the interpretation of these data with regard to public health research, policies, and programs. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1586361/
Abstract: In 21 restrained and 20 unrestrained eaters body size perception was measured using the video distortion technique (VDT), the image marking procedure (IMP) and the kinesthetic size estimating apparatus (KSEA). Body satisfaction was assessed by questionnaires (Body Shape Questionnaire, Dieting scale of the Eating Attitudes Test). Restrained eaters showed no systematic over- or underestimation of the body size but less perceptual accuracy (in VDT and KSEA). Furthermore, they were clearly more dissatisfied with their bodies than unrestrained eaters. Both findings were unrelated to each other. In both groups depressive mood or thoughts seemed to be associated with body dissatisfaction but not with body size misperception. Objective body measures (body mass index, body fat content) were not related to either body size perception or body satisfaction. The findings suggest that a perceptual uncertainty in regard to body size (either for visual or for somatosensory aspects) has already developed in restrained eaters, which may constitute a predisposition for more overt forms of body size misperception as found in eating disorder patients. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1586090/
Abstract: The irritable bowel syndrome is a common chronic disorder having a broad clinical spectrum of severity. Although only a small proportion of those afflicted seek medical help for their symptoms, a subset have severe and intractable symptoms. A positive diagnosis should be established from the history and physical examination; endoscopic and radiologic investigations should be minimized. We suggest that the physician also assess the severity of the illness based on its symptomatic and functional features and the patient's behavioral response. Classifying the disorder in this manner permits a graduated treatment approach that emphasizes education, reassurance, and dietary adjustment for mild symptoms. Moderate symptom severity requires, in addition, identification and modification of factors exacerbating symptoms, psychotherapeutic and behavioral techniques and, if a certain symptom type predominates, pharmacologic agents directed toward the presumed gastrointestinal motor dysfunction. For severe symptoms, physician-based behavior modification and psychopharmacologic agents are helpful. When the disorder is intractable, referral may be needed, for example, to a pain treatment center. In all cases, the skillful physician must ensure continued psychosocial support to enhance coping and continued focus on the palliative aspects of care rather than on cure. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1586005/
Abstract: The incidence of atopic manifestations was analyzed in infants "at risk" because of histories of atopy in first degree relatives. The incidence of atopic manifestations was significantly reduced (P = .0011) during the first 6 months of life when only the whey hydrolysate was administered (2/32 infants, 6.3%) compared with the incidence when an adapted formula was given (14/35 infants, 40%). This beneficial effect continued during the 6 to 12-month period, after diversification of the diet at 6 months. At the age of 1 year, 7/32 (21.8%) of the infants in the whey hydrolysate group had presented with manifestations of probable atopic disease compared with 17/35 (48.6%) infants in the adapted formula group (P = .021). The incidence of cow milk protein sensitivity was evaluated at 5/32 (15.6%) in the hydrolysate group and 15/35 (42.8%) in the adapted formula group (P = .014). Other foods such as egg and fish may be responsible for manifestations in three infants in hydrolysate group and in five infants of the adapted group (9.4% and 14.3%, respectively NS). These preliminary data show that the administration of a whey hydrolysate during the first 6 months of life to babies "at risk" decreased the incidence of atopic disease up to the age of 12 months. The incidence of cow milk protein sensitivity appeared to be decreased, whereas the incidence of sensitivities to other food proteins was comparable in both groups. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1585960/
Abstract: Background:
        
      
      Recent recommendations for Americans aged 2 and older call for a reduction in the average saturated fat intake to less than 10% of calories. Methods:
        
      
      Using 24-hour dietary recalls collected from mothers of 4- to 7-year-old urban Latino children, we identified foods and dietary behavior patterns that distinguish children with higher and lower mean daily percentages of calories from saturated fat. Results:
        
      
      Compared with children in the lowest quintile of intake, children in the highest quintile consumed more than twice as much saturated fat per day from high-fat milk products (18.5 g vs 7.8 g), mostly from whole milk. They did not consume different kinds of milk or different amounts of milk per eating occasion, but on average they consumed milk more frequently (2.8 vs 1.6 eating occasions per day). Even children in the lowest quintile, on average, exceeded the 10% of calories from saturated fat currently recommended. If low-fat (1% fat) milk had been substituted without other dietary changes, all but the highest two quintiles would have been within the recommended level. Conclusions:
        
      
      The substitution of low-fat for whole milk appears to be a key strategy for preschool children for achieving recommended levels of saturated fat intake. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1585962/
Abstract: Background:
        
      
      Obesity is more prevalent among Black women than Black men, but there is little information on the correlates of obesity in Blacks. This study describes the relations of sociodemographic factors and health behaviors to body mass index in a southern, Black population. Methods:
        
      
      In 1988, a community probability sample of 1784 Black adults, aged 25 to 50, was examined in Pitt County, NC. Results:
        
      
      More women than men were at least 20% overweight (57% vs 36%). The relation of socioeconomic status (a composite of education and occupation) to age-adjusted body mass index level was inverse in women but not in men. Body mass index did not differ with either current energy intake or energy expenditure. Smokers and drinkers had lower age-adjusted levels than non-smokers and abstainers. Conclusions:
        
      
      Since the excess body mass index levels associated with low socioeconomic status in women could not be explained after controlling for adverse health behaviors, further epidemiologic study of risk factors for obesity in Black women is recommended. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1586370/
Abstract: Melatonin, the chief hormone of the pineal gland, is produced and secreted into the blood in a circadian manner with maximal production always occurring during the dark phase of the light:dark cycle. Whereas the 24h rhythm of melatonin production is very robust in young animals including humans, the cycle deteriorates during ageing. The rhythm of melatonin can be substantially preserved during ageing by restricting the food intake of experimental animals; this same treatment increases the life span of the animals. The exogenous administration of melatonin to non-food restricted animals also reportedly increases their survival. Moreover, melatonin has been shown to have immunoenhancing effects and oncostatic properties. The implication of these studies is that melatonin may have both direct and indirect beneficial effects in delaying ageing processes or it may retard the development of processes (e.g., immunodeficiency and tumor growth) which contribute to a reduced life span. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1586382/
Abstract: The pharmacokinetics of KC-764 (2-methyl-3-(1,4,5,6-tetrahydronicotinoyl)pyrazolo[1,5-a]pyridine, CAS 94457-09-7) was studied in healthy male adult volunteers after single ascending oral dose and multiple dosing for 7 days. Serum KC-764 concentration attained the peak in 1 h and declined with a half-life of about 2 h at a single oral dose of 5, 10, 20 and 40 mg. No dose dependent pharmacokinetics of KC-764 was demonstrated. Three metabolites were detected in serum, but their concentrations were lower than that of KC-764. 48-h urinary recoveries after single doses were 41.6-46.6% of dose, not being dose-dependent. Urinary recovery of unchanged KC-764 was 1.1-1.6% of dose. Three metabolites were present in greater amount in urine than unchanged KC-764 and two metabolites were less than KC-764. There was little daily variation of serum concentrations and urinary excretion of KC-764 and its metabolites in the multiple dosing (20 mg twice a day) study. The daily and total urinary recovery were same as those after single doses. Food reduced Cmax and tended to delay tmax, but did not influence AUC0----infinity and urinary recovery. Serum protein binding of KC-764 was about 60%, being not dependent on total serum concentration. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1586385/
Abstract: Effect of food on absorption of erythromycin acistrate (2'-acetyl erythromycin stearate, Erasis; CAS 96128-89-1) was studied in 14 healthy volunteers in a randomized cross-over design. The subjects were given 400 mg erythromycin acistrate enteric coated tablets b.i.d. for 4 days. On the 1st and 4th days the tablets were taken after an overnight fast or immediately after a light or a heavy breakfast. Erythromycin (E), 2'-acetyl-erythromycin (2AE), anhydroerythromycin and anhydro-2'-acetyl-erythromycin concentrations in plasma were analyzed chemically by HPLC. After a single dose the lag time of absorption (tlag) was significantly longer after both types of breakfasts as compared to fast. The tmax of E and 2AE were also somewhat delayed by food although tmax of 2AE after a heavy breakfast only differed statistically significantly from that of the fasting state. Food significantly delayed the absorption especially in some subjects since no drug was observed during the 12-h observation period in 2 and 5 of the subjects after a light and heavy breakfast, respectively. At steady state the delaying effect of food on absorption had almost disappeared. No significant differences were observed in Cmax- or AUC0-12-values between the fasting and the fed states both after a single dose or at steady state. It is concluded, that food does not affect the mean bioavailability of erythromycin acistrate neither the mean rate of absorption but in some subjects the absorption from enteric coated tablets might be significantly delayed. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1586763/
Abstract: Rectal bleeding is the cardinal symptom in patients with inflammation of the rectum, and initial management must be directed at establishing an underlying diagnosis. In many patients in the Western World this will be idiopathic inflammatory bowel disease, although in all cases other causes such as infection must be excluded. Idiopathic proctitis is usually due to either ulcerative colitis or Crohn's disease, and in both conditions corticosteroids, either systemic or topical, provide the mainstay of treatment. The 5-aminosalicylic acid drugs are helpful in both acute and maintenance treatment, again given either systemically or topically, while metronidazole is of value in patients with Crohn's disease. In those with refractory proctitis alternative agents such as azathioprine, immunomodulating drugs and barrier agents may be useful. Severe inflammation of the rectum secondary to pelvic irradiation will also usually respond to topical steroid therapy, although sucralfate enemas may be equally successful; in resistant cases other treatments may be needed. Infective proctitis, when diagnosed, may require treatment with specific antimicrobial agents. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1586635/
Abstract: The object of this study was to assess the non-medical factors which detract from the quality of outpatient receiving service to a population of 2.7 million in a wide geographical area. We conducted a survey by patient questionnaire of all outpatients receiving radiotherapy in the West of Scotland on a single day in 1990. A total of 216 outpatients attended for radiotherapy with a 92% response rate to the questionnaire being achieved. Median values (and ranges) were: age 58 (4-85) years, number of daily treatments 20 (4-33), distance travelled in one direction 10 (1-60) miles, travelling time 45 (5-130) minutes, waiting time in the unit for treatment 60 (0-200) minutes, and a time away from home of 2 hours 50 minutes (35 minutes-7 hours). Sixteen per cent of patients had a relative who lost time from work by transporting the patient and only 12 of 60 patients who were away from home over a meal time were offered a hospital meal. Sixteen per cent of patients came by ambulance and 73% by motor car. Of 146 travelling by car 27% used a charity service and 20% a volunteer driver ambulance service car. It is concluded that long travelling distances, travelling times and treatment waiting times for many patients require revision of transport provision, a strict appointment system, more treatment machines and hostel accommodation. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1586398/
Abstract: Objective:
        
      
      To test the short-term feasibility and efficacy of seven nonpharmacologic interventions in persons with high normal diastolic blood pressure. Design:
        
      
      Randomized control multicenter trials. Setting:
        
      
      Volunteers recruited from the community, treated and followed up at special clinics. Participants:
        
      
      Of 16,821 screenees, 2182 men and women, aged 30 through 54 years, with diastolic blood pressure from 80 through 89 mm Hg were selected. Of these, 50 did not return for follow-up blood pressure measurements. Interventions:
        
      
      Three life-style change groups (weight reduction, sodium reduction, and stress management) were each compared with unmasked nonintervention controls over 18 months. Four nutritional supplement groups (calcium, magnesium, potassium, and fish oil) were each compared singly, in double-blind fashion, with placebo controls over 6 months. Main outcome measures:
        
      
      Primary: change in diastolic blood pressure from baseline to final follow-up, measured by blinded observers. Secondary: changes in systolic blood pressure and intervention compliance measures. Results:
        
      
      Weight reduction intervention produced weight loss of 3.9 kg (P less than .01), diastolic blood pressure change of -2.3 mm Hg (P less than .01), and systolic blood pressure change of -2.9 mm Hg (P less than .01). Sodium reduction interventions lowered urinary sodium excretion by 44 mmol/24 h (P less than .01), diastolic blood pressure by 0.9 mm Hg (P less than .05), and systolic blood pressure by 1.7 mm Hg (P less than .01). Despite good compliance, neither stress management nor nutritional supplements reduced diastolic blood pressure or systolic blood pressure significantly (P greater than .05). Conclusions:
        
      
      Weight reduction is the most effective of the strategies tested for reducing blood pressure in normotensive persons. Sodium reduction is also effective. The long-term effects of weight reduction and sodium reduction, alone and in combination, require further evaluation. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1586428/
Abstract: To assess the prevalence of folate deficiency in emergency department patients with alcohol-related illness or injury, a prospective, nonconsecutive case series with nonrandomized controls was used. All patients presenting to a 60,000-visit public hospital emergency department with alcohol-related illness or injury were eligible; patients were excluded if they had received folate in our health care facility within the previous 4 months. An alcohol and brief dietary history was obtained, and a complete blood cell count and red blood cell folate level was performed on each patient. Analysis was undertaken by chi 2 to evaluate the prevalence of folate deficiency in the alcohol-related versus the control population. One hundred three patients were entered into the study. Three patients were subsequently excluded from analysis. Of 52 study patients, three (5.8%) were found to be folate deficient. Of 48 controls, two (4.2%) were found to be folate deficient. This difference is not statistically significant (P greater than .05, chi 2; mean difference 1.6%, 95% confidence interval -6.9% to 10.1%). The prevalence of folate deficiency in patients presenting to this emergency department with alcohol-related illness or injury is low, and does not differ from the general emergency department population. Empiric folate therapy in these patients is not indicated. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1586782/
Abstract: Objective:
        
      
      To test whether a fat reduced diet rich in soluble dietary fibre, antioxidant vitamins, and minerals reduces complications and mortality after acute myocardial infarction. Design:
        
      
      Randomised, single blind, controlled trial. Setting:
        
      
      Primary and secondary care research centre for patients with myocardial infarction. Subjects:
        
      
      505 patients with suspected acute myocardial infarction. Those with definite or possible acute myocardial infarction and unstable angina based on World Health Organisation criteria were assigned to diet A (n = 204) or diet B (n = 202) within 24-48 hours of infarction. Interventions:
        
      
      Both groups were advised to follow a fat reduced diet. Group A was also advised to eat more fruit, vegetables, nuts, and grain products. Main outcome measures:
        
      
      Mortality from cardiac disease and other causes. Serum lipid concentrations and compliance with diet. Results:
        
      
      Blood lipoprotein concentrations and body weight fell significantly in patients in group A compared with those in group B (cholesterol fell by 0.74 mmol/l in group A v 0.32 mmol/l in group B, 95% confidence interval of difference 0.14 to 0.70, and weight by 7.1 v 3.0 kg, 0.52 to 7.68). The incidence of cardiac events was significantly lower in group A than group B (50 v 82 patients, p less than 0.001). Group A also had lower total mortality (21 v 38 died, p less than 0.01) than group B. Conclusions:
        
      
      Comprehensive dietary changes in conjunction with weight loss immediately after acute myocardial infarction may modulate blood lipoproteins and significantly reduce complications and mortality after one year. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1586910/
Abstract: Over the last 30 years, the impurities in the vancomycin product have been reduced, perhaps resulting in a lower rate of adverse reactions. Vancomycin is bactericidal against most susceptible organisms, but is bacteriostatic against the enterococcus. Vancomycin is the drug of choice for methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus. Vancomycin attains good tissue and bone penetration and must be administered intravenously for systemic infections. It is eliminated renally with a half-life of about 6 hours; this half-life is prolonged with advanced age and reduced renal function. Significant adverse reactions can be minimized with careful attention to administration technique. Metronidazole has excellent tissue penetration; its antibacterial site of action is within anaerobic bacterial cells. Metronidazole is cleared by hepatic metabolism with a half-life of about 7 to 8 hours. The half-life is unchanged with renal dysfunction but is prolonged in patients with hepatic function impairment. Although adverse effects are relatively minor, there is an important interaction with warfarin. For podiatric infections, metronidazole can be used in skin- and soft-tissue infections; anaerobes in bone and joint infections are rare. Topical metronidazole has been used successfully in the treatment of decubitus ulcers, and this needs further evaluation. The most commonly used tetracyclines are tetracycline, doxycycline, and minocycline. The tetracyclines are broad spectrum antimicrobial agents, but their usefulness is limited by resistant strains. Tetracycline's absorption is significantly impaired by food, and it is cleared renally and fecally. Doxycycline has the highest protein binding and the longest half-life; it is cleared both renally and fecally without hepatic metabolism. Minocycline has the best absorption and tissue penetration; the unchanged drug is cleared renally and fecally, and it also undergoes hepatic metabolism. All tetracyclines have important adverse reactions with respect to teeth and bones, and they are contraindicated during pregnancy and for children under age eight. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1586879/
Abstract: During the last few years Limulus Amoebocyte Lysate (LAL) has been extensively used to detect minimal amounts of endotoxins of Gram-negative bacteria in products of the pharmaceutical industry, in food stuff, body fluids, house dust and room air. LAL is produced from cells of the haemolymph (amoebocytes) of the horseshoe crab (Limulus polyphemus), which respond with an extremely sensitive clotting system upon contact with endotoxins. In this study we demonstrate by typical case history, positive skin test and ELISA the occurrence of Type I allergy to LAL in a patient suffering from conjunctivitis and rhinitis at work. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1586919/
Abstract: The projected growth of the elderly population in the United States in the coming years underlines the importance of assuring that the quality of life for older persons is maintained. Because CHD is prevalent in this population, measures for preventing disease as well as for optimizing the abilities of those with disease will assume greater significance. Exercise training is a key component in achieving and maintaining optimal capacities in the elderly cardiac and noncardiac populations. These groups can safely undergo exercise training with proper screening and program design. Modifications in the components of the exercise prescription (i.e., frequency, intensity, duration, and activity mode) must be individualized according to the abilities, needs, and goals of each person. Risk factors for CHD still prevail in the elderly, although the predictive value of some risk factors may change with age. For this reason, efforts to control risk factors in older individuals should still be effective in reducing risk from CHD. Dietary modification, weight control, blood pressure control, smoking cessation, and endurance exercise training are several of the interventions used in concert to control risk for CHD. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1587004/
Abstract: Maternal to child exposure of aflatoxin M1 in breast milk is an underevaluated risk factor from dietary exposure to aflatoxin B1. A molecular dosimetry study in The Gambia, West Africa, was initiated to explore the relationships between dietary intake of aflatoxins during a 1 week period and a number of aflatoxin biomarkers including aflatoxin metabolite excretion into breast milk. For the breast milk study, five lactating women were identified and milk samples were collected by hand expression once a day during days 3-7 for three women and during days 3-6 for the two other women. Aflatoxin M1 (AFM1) in human milk was measured in all five subjects by a preparative monoclonal antibody immunoaffinity column/HPLC method. In three of the five women, aflatoxin G1 was found. Estimates of the percentage of aflatoxin in the diet excreted as AFM1 in milk ranged from 0.09 to 0.43%. Thus, these data indicate that a rapid methodology exists to assess the levels of AFM1 excretion in human milk and to use this approach as a biomarker for exposure of children to this carcinogen. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1587008/
Abstract: When incubated in suspension with the heterocyclic aromatic amine food mutagens 2-amino-3-methylimidazo [4,5-f]-quinoline (IQ) and 2-amino-3,4-dimethylimidazo[4,5-f]quinoline (MeIQ), human mammary epithelial cell aggregates were found, by 32P-postlabelling analysis, to yield DNA that contained adducts. Analysis by HPLC of the 32P-labelled digests of mammary cell DNA indicated that in each case a major adduct peak corresponded to that produced in DNA in vitro by activated derivatives of the two compounds. The patterns of adducts obtained when DNA digests were separated by TLC on polyethyleneimine-cellulose plates were found to resemble those previously shown to be present in DNA of tissues of mice fed IQ or MeIQ. These results demonstrate the ability of human mammary epithelial cells to activate carcinogenic heterocyclic compounds known to be present in the human diet to DNA binding derivatives. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1587063/
Abstract: Single-dose (200 mg) carbamazepine pharmacokinetics was evaluated in six obese, otherwise healthy subjects, before and after a mean +/- SEM weight reduction of 30.0 +/- 5.0 kg over 11.3 +/- 1.2 months. After weight loss the mean +/- SEM plasma elimination half-life (t1/2) of carbamazepine was significantly shortened (60.3 +/- 3.1 versus 30.8 +/- 3.3 hours, p less than 0.01) and the total plasma clearance (CL) increased (20.4 +/- 1.8 versus 31.6 +/- 5.0 ml/min, p less than 0.05). The apparent volume of distribution (Varea) decreased (106.2 +/- 9.9 versus 77.7 +/- 4.5 L, p less than 0.01); however, no difference was evident when carbamazepine Varea was corrected for body weight. In addition, weight loss coincided in all participants with a complete sonographic disappearance of the initial fatty liver infiltration noted on enrollment. In conclusion, obesity associated with fatty liver presents an enlarged carbamazepine Varea, prolonged carbamazepine t1/2, and reduced carbamazepine CL. Whenever carbamazepine is initiated in obese subjects, steady-state concentrations should be expected only after twice the time required to achieve steady state in lean subjects. Thus carbamazepine maintenance dose should be reduced, dose interval prolonged, and monitoring of carbamazepine plasma levels provided. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1587056/
Abstract: Renal insufficiency is characterised by impaired host defences, which are compromised further by each of the 3 modes of renal replacement--haemodialysis, continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis (CAPD) and renal transplantation. Reduced renal clearance of unknown toxins, possible development of nutritional deficiencies and administration of immunosuppressive medications lead to aberrant immune regulation early in the course of renal failure. This results subsequently in increased frequency and severity of infection. Vaccination plays an important role in attenuating this infection risk, but impaired cell-mediated and humoral immunity contraindicates the use of live vaccines and engenders suboptimal and short-lived antibody responses to inactivated vaccines. Reinforced vaccination schedules, increased vaccine dosage and concomitantly administered adjuvant immunomodulators have variably improved the defective antibody responses to certain vaccines. Immunisation against hepatitis B virus has resulted in a significant decrease in prevalence and incidence of this infection in haemodialysis units. Similarly, the inoculation of influenza vaccine in patients with uraemia and of polyvalent pneumococcal vaccine in special risk circumstances has been recommended because of perceived reductions in morbidity and mortality from infection with these agents. Cytomegalovirus (CMV) vaccine may attenuate CMV disease severity in recipients of renal allografts. Staphylococcus aureus vaccine, on the other hand, is ineffective in preventing peritonitis or exit site infections in patients receiving CAPD. Other killed vaccines have not been comprehensively studied, but generally have the same indications for use as in normal individuals. However, the protection that these vaccines afford may be either inadequate or transient, so that other infection control strategies should be simultaneously implemented. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1587073/
Abstract: Between weeks 34 and 104, we explored different schema for administering fenfluramine plus phentermine in open-label fashion. At week 34, the original placebo group participants began taking fenfluramine plus phentermine (placebo-to-active group). Those receiving fenfluramine plus phentermine between weeks 6 and 34 either continued to receive medication or began targeted intermittent therapy. Participants who did not lose 10% of initial weight received an augmented dose (60 mg fenfluramine plus 30 mg phentermine. The placebo-to-active group lost an additional 9.1 +/- 0.8 kg (mean +/- SEM) in the period from week 34 to week 60. At week 60, they were assigned to either continue medication, intermittent therapy, or augmented therapy. More than 68% (83) of the original participants completed up to study week 104. At that point, overall weight loss was 10.8 +/- 0.7 kg (11.6 +/- 0.8% of initial weight); participants who continued to receive fenfluramine plus phentermine lost 11.6 +/- 0.8 kg, participants receiving intermittent therapy lost 11.6 +/- 1.3 kg, and participants receiving augmented therapy lost 6.5 +/- 1.5 kg. Although 41% of the participants complained of dry mouth, neither serious adverse effects nor evidence of medication abuse appeared. There were 29 dropouts in the period from weeks 34 to 104. Sixteen of those were related to medication (adverse effects, lack of efficacy, and fear of medication). Overall, fenfluramine plus phentermine used in conjunction with behavior modification, caloric restriction, and exercise continued to be efficacious for up to 2 years. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1596500/
Abstract: Insulin binding to erythrocyte receptors was compared in malnourished and control rats. Percentage specific insulin binding to malnourished rat erythrocytes was significantly lower than to control erythrocytes (P less than 0.001). The low insulin binding in the malnourished rat erythrocytes was accompanied by low insulin receptor affinity (P = 0.035). 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1596501/
Abstract: In spite of a rather modest dietary intake of selenium (80 micrograms/10 MJ), Norwegian serum Se levels are among the highest in Europe. As part of an ongoing study of Se bioavailability, effects of different doses of wheat Se were investigated in eighteen healthy, Norwegian women. The participants were given Se-rich bread providing 100, 200 and 300 micrograms Se daily for 6 weeks. About 50% of the Se intake was excreted in the urine by week 6, compared with 67% before the intervention started. Serum Se increased by 20, 37 and 53 micrograms/l respectively, in the three group (P less than 0.001). The blood response and renal clearance results compare well with data obtained from less Se-replete populations, and support the hypothesis that selenomethionine from the diet is incorporated into a non-specific amino acid pool. Our study indicates that the intake of wheat Se is the main determinant of blood Se levels in Norway. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1596723/
Abstract: The evaluation of nutritional status in surgical patients remains a difficult problem. Bioelectrical impedance analysis (BIA) is a new method of body composition analysis which is easily performed at the bedside. This study determined the accuracy of BIA in the measurement of total body water (TBW) and potassium (TBK) in a heterogeneous group of surgical patients. The resistance and reactance components of impedance were measured with a whole body impedance analyser. Tritiated water dilution and whole body monitoring were the reference methods for TBW and TBK analysis. With the BIA technique the coefficient of variation for the estimation of TBW was 8.1 per cent and for TBK was 6.4 per cent. Allowing for the errors of the reference methods these results show that BIA is of limited value in the estimation of TBW but may provide a useful index of TBK. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1596590/
Abstract: Nutritional anaemia is recognized as a major public health problem throughout the world, especially in developing countries. Infants, young children, menstruating women and, in particular, pregnant women are most frequently affected. Sufficient evidence suggests that iron deficiency is the most common cause of nutritional anaemia in the world. Folate deficiency is considered as the second most common cause. In this chapter we discuss the factors determining nutritional inadequacy in iron and folate requirements versus iron and folate intake, particularly in different age/sex categories; the amounts of iron and folate involved in daily exchange and the role of the diet and physiological and pathological variations in losses and requirements are reviewed. The consequences in terms of health of iron and folate deficiencies and methods for assessing iron and folate status of populations are also presented. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1596715/
Abstract: Malnutrition was included by Crohn as one of the features of the new disease he described. Most patients with Crohn's disease are malnourished even if their disease is not active. Nutritional factors may be implicated in the aetiology of the disease, but this remains unproven. The role of nutritional support and therapy is discussed and it is suggested that improving the patient's nutritional status may have a primary therapeutic as well as a supportive role in the treatment of the disease. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1596720/
Abstract: Breast pain (mastalgia) and macroscopic breast cysts present commonly. Mastalgia may be improved by dietary manipulation to reduce saturated fat or supplement essential fatty acid intake. Fatty acid profiles were measured in women with mastalgia and breast cysts, before and during treatment with evening primrose oil, a rich source of essential fatty acids. The fatty acid profiles of both groups of patients were abnormal, with increased proportions of saturated fatty acids and reduced proportions of essential fatty acids. Treatment with evening primrose oil improved the fatty acid profiles towards normal, but this was not necessarily associated with a clinical response. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1596866/
Abstract: In vitro studies showed that several flavonoids, tannic acid, gallic acid and fat-soluble vitamins inhibited HeLa and Raji lymphoma cell growth. The inhibition trend exhibited by these compounds was similar for both cell lines, and their growth was inhibited dose dependently. Butein, (10 microM), the most potent anti-proliferative agent, exerted 30% growth inhibition and was more effective on HeLa cells. Retinol (100 microM) inhibited cell proliferation completely. Tannic acid was twice as potent as its monomer gallic acid. From structure-activity consideration, the C2,3-double bond of the flavonoid molecule was important for activity. Flavonoid aglycones were more effective than their corresponding glycosides in suppressing cell growth. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1596879/
Abstract: The antiproliferative properties of three 21-aminosteroid antioxidants (lazaroids), 21-[4-[5,6-bis(diethylamino)-2-pyridinyl]-1- piperazinyl]-16 alpha-methylpregna-1,4,9(11)triene-3,20-dione, hydrochloride (U74500A), 21-[4-(2,6-di-1-pyrrolidinyl-4-pyrimidinyl)-1-piper- azinyl]-pregna-1,4,9(11)-triene-3,20-dione, monomethanesulfonate (U74389F), 2H-1-benzopyran-6-ol, 2-[[4-[3-(ethylamino)-2-pyridinyl]-1-piperzinyl]methyl]-3,4- dihydro-2,5,7,8-tetramethyl-, (Z)-2-buten dioate (U78518F), on human breast cancer cells are described. U74500A inhibited cell proliferation in a dose-dependent manner with IC50 values of approximately 1.7 and 1.2 microM when cells were exposed to the drug for 3 and 5 days, respectively. The non-steroid antioxidants, alpha-tocopherol and nordihydroguaiaretic acid, showed weak or no activity at the same dose range. All three lazaroids inhibited, dose dependently, the proliferation of mouse lymphocytes but only at IC50 values ranging between 20-30 microM. The specificity of action was studied by including other steroids: progesterone, testosterone and hydrocortisone. Both sex hormones stimulated cell proliferation at low (less than 10(-5) M) concentrations but inhibited at higher doses with IC50 values of 26 (progesterone) and 80 (testosterone) microM. Hydrocortisone (IC50 0.17 microM), on the other hand, inhibited cell proliferation by 70% over a wide range of doses. Human breast cancer cells appear to have a greater sensitivity than the mouse lymphocytes to lazaroids. The antiproliferative effects of lazaroids in cancer cells may be, at least in part, due to an interaction with glucocorticoid receptors. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1596990/
Abstract: We determined approximately 15,000 laboratory values in 236 individuals between the ages of 60 and 90 y, 22 individuals between 90 and 99 y, and 69 individuals greater than or equal to 100 y, and compared these with values in young adults. We tested 47 different analytes in the 60-90-y group and 93 analytes in the greater than or equal to 90-y group. Na, K, Cl, and CO2 values were either identical or showed minimal change with age; pH decreased slightly. Differences in Ca values were only minor, but ionized Ca increased slightly. Phosphate decreased in men, but changed only minimally in women; parathyroid hormone increased with age. Increases with age were also observed for glucose, insulin, and C-peptide. Among the enzymes, alkaline phosphatase increased in women, but in men only greater than 90 y; gamma-glutamyltransferase increased in both sexes. Creatine kinase (CK) decreased slightly in individuals greater than 70 y and markedly in those greater than 90 y of age, whereas CK-MB decreased markedly greater than 70 y, reaching the detection limit in individuals greater than 90 y. Lactate dehydrogenase isoenzyme 5 decreased slightly with age. Urea nitrogen increased gradually with age, but creatinine increased only in individuals greater than or equal to 90 y. The increase in urea is not paralleled by a loss of protein in urine, suggesting that the possible cause of azotemia may not always be renal pathology. Urate increased in women but not in men. Liver function, as measured by total bilirubin and liver enzymes, was exceedingly well maintained. Concentrations of most proteins show little change, except for slight decreases in prealbumin, albumin, and transferrin, proteins used as an index of nutritional status. IgA values increased, IgG ranges were wider, IgM and IgD decreased, and the range for IgE was narrower than in young adults. Cholesterol, high-density lipoprotein cholesterol, and triglyceride values increased with age, but decreased in individuals greater than or equal to 90 y. Among the trace elements, magnesium changed little, zinc and lead decreased, and copper values increased with age. Total triiodothyronine and thyroxine decreased, with concomitant increases in thyroid-stimulating hormone. More individuals had increased microsomal antibodies and thyroglobulin titers in the aging population than in the young. In men, the free, percent free, bioactive, and total testosterone values decreased, but luteinizing hormone (LH) and follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) values increased. In women, estrone and estradiol values decreased, with concomitant increases in LH and FSH. Androstenedione and progesterone decreased in both sexes.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS) 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1597102/
Abstract: The Safe Medical Device Act places a legal responsibility on health care practitioners to assess and report malfunctioning medical equipment. As a result of this law, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) will for the first time have direct regulatory authority over hospitals. Today's complex and technological critical care setting requires that the nurse understand the legal and professional responsibilities imposed by this Act. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1597016/
Abstract: We describe a method based on a single stable reagent for the determination of calcium in serum and plasma with use of Arsenazo III, 200 mumol/L in 50 mmol/L 1,4-piperazinediethanesulfonic acid (PIPES) buffer. The method showed significant positive interference in plasma at pH less than 6.6 because of the precipitation of fibrinogen, which was eliminated by increasing the pH to 6.8. The assay showed no interference from as much as 600 mumol of bilirubin and 12 g of hemoglobin per liter when applied in a simple monochromatic procedure at 660 nm. The standard curve for calcium was linear from 0 to 5.0 mmol/L. Addition of Intralipid at concentrations greater than 3 g/L demonstrated positive interference, which could be eliminated by using a 700-nm blanking wavelength. The procedure showed good agreement with all-method mean values from two external quality-control schemes. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1597331/
Abstract: Attempts were made to show that periodic measurements are important for evaluating impact of feeding programmes as considerable "within variation" in increments exists which cannot be overlooked. From two socio-economic classes two kindergartens were selected one of which was implementing a feeding programme while the other was not. A total of 273 children were measured for weight and height, three times during the period of 7 months. Normal children showed significant gain in weight while malnourished children showed significant gain in height. The significance in weight (or height) increment at the end of the feeding programme did not necessarily mean that the significance could be obtained in each period even of equal time interval. Simple and cross correlations in increment revealed that weight increment in one period was significantly associated with height increment in the following period suggesting alternating priorities of the body for growth. Carefully planned longitudinal growth studies are therefore necessary for better understanding of growth process and thereby for proper evaluation of feeding programmes. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1597213/
Abstract: We have established a research project in primary health care in Crete with the aim of surveying the cardiovascular risk profile of a defined 'low-risk' population. The study population comprised all men and women aged 15-79 years in the village of Spili (n = 445); the overall attendance rate was 77% (greater than or equal to 82% in those aged 45 years and above). In this cross-sectional study we found a high (44%) prevalence of smoking in men aged 45-64 years as well as a high alcohol intake (48% drank greater than or equal to 210 g of pure alcohol every week). Furthermore, there was a high cholesterol level (6.2 mmol.l-1), and a high prevalence of hypertension and diabetes. Against this background it is somewhat surprising that we did not find any signs of post-myocardial infarction in Spili men aged 63 and under. It is possible that positive factors, i.e. the closely knit social networks, the low unemployment rate, the hard water, and some of the dietary habits, e.g. the high consumption of olive oil, may counter-balance the negative factors mentioned above. It is also possible that the low risk factors in the past explain the low incidence of myocardial infarction today, and that this will change in the years to come. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1597235/
Abstract: A 41-year-old Asian woman presented with mild congestive cardiac failure, initially controlled with a small dose of diuretic. Subsequently there was a marked deterioration in her condition with severe cardiac failure resistant to treatment. At this time biochemistry revealed a hyperphosphataemic variety of osteomalacia. Her cardiac failure improved promptly on correcting the hypocalcemia. Although hypocalcaemia is a recognised cause of cardiac failure it has not been described in privational osteomalacia. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1597527/
Abstract: Small bowel morphometry was studied in 25 subjects under the age of 70 years and 22 over the age of 70. There was no evidence of malabsorption or malnutrition in either group. Two distal duodenal endoscopic biopsy specimens were examined morphometrically. There were no significant correlations between age and areas of duodenal surface epithelium, crypts and lamina propria, heights of villi and surface epithelium, depth of crypts, crypt to villus ratio, number of intraepithelial lymphocytes, duodenal architecture, enterocytes, brush border and Brunner glands. Contrary to previous reports there was no evidence for a significant effect of age on proximal small bowel morphometry. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1597643/
Abstract: Strategies of caries prevention can be directed at the resistance of the host/teeth, at the diet, at the microflora or all three. The appropriate preventive interventions depend on the level of caries risk. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1597817/
Abstract: Five health problems continue to jeopardize the survival of the world's children including prenatal factors, level of nutrition, communicable diseases common to childhood, diarrheal diseases, and acute respiratory infections. Although some of these concerns are being managed effectively in the United States and other Western countries, they still pose tremendous risks for the child born in Asia, Africa, Latin America, or the South Pacific. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1597767/
Abstract: A case of toxic epidermal necrolysis is described in an employee of a company that carries out plastic extrusion using various resins, including cellulose acetate, co-polyester, polyvinyl chloride, acrylonitrile-butadienestyrene, and polyethylene. Air sampling during normal operating conditions indicated only trace amounts of hydrogen chloride and the plasticizer diethylphthalate. However, pyrolysis products of resin plugs could include compounds such as formaldehyde, acrylonitrile, and chlorinated hydrocarbons that have been associated with previous case reports of either erythema multiforme, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, or toxic epidermal necrolysis. The development of toxic epidermal necrolysis in this worker was directly preceded by exposure to a vapor from a machine used to dry cellulose acetate. The problems in determining work relatedness and advising about return to work are discussed. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1597843/
Abstract: This study attempts to understand the various factors involved in the pathophysiology of hypertension in black Beduins. Parameters known to differentiate US black from white hypertensives were examined. Sixty Beduin families (thirty families each of black and white, total of 205 subjects) were evaluated for environmental risk factors: a traditional nomad shepherd life-style compared with working in a city, living in tents or in western style housing and dietary habits related to cardiovascular risk factors. Blood pressure, body mass index (BMI), sodium-lithium counter transport rate and 24 hour urinary sodium excretion (UNa) were measured and the data obtained were compared between normotensives and hypertensives, within each racial group. The mean value of the BMI of the white population was greater than that of the black population while the BMI of hypertensives was greater than that of the normotensives in each of the racial groups. The mean systolic BP of black hypertensives was greater than that of the corresponding whites. There were no significant differences in UNa between the four groups. Sodium-lithium countertransport was significantly higher in the hypertensive whites compared with the normotensive population (0.46 versus 0.22 mmol Li efflux/IRBC/hr). The countertransport rate for black hypertensives was lower than that of white hypertensives (0.20 versus 0.46). Black families had lower socio-economic scores than did white families and families with a hypertensive member scored lower than did families with a normotensive history. These results demonstrate some similarities between the American and Beduin black hypertensive populations, in spite of entirely different life-styles, indicating that in these populations genetic factors, rather than environmental influences, appear to be dominant in the pathophysiology of hypertension. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1597844/
Abstract: There is increasing evidence that the type of fat in the diet may play a role in the control of blood pressure and development of hypertension. The purpose of the present study was to investigate the effect of a concentrated preparation of the 6-desaturated essential fatty acids gamma-linolenic acid (C18:3n-6), eicosapentaenoic acid (C20:5n-3) and docosahexaenoic acid (C22:6n-3) on individuals with raised BP. Eighteen volunteers from our College staff with elevated BP on several occasions but otherwise healthy, were divided into two groups following a two-week baseline period. One group received 4g sunflower seed oil daily and the other 4g of an oil preparation rich in C18:3n-6, C20:5n-3 and C22:6n-3 for six weeks. Major measurements included BP and fatty acids in phospholipids and cholesteryl esters. Dietary intakes and urinary fluid and electrolyte excretion were also monitored during baseline and intervention periods. The subjects' office diastolic BP showed a significantly greater effect of the concentrate over the sunflower seed oil, both overall (P = 0.03) and in interaction with time (P = 0.012). Fatty acids in plasma cholesteryl esters underwent mild alterations following the administration of the concentrate. There were no important changes in nutrient intakes or in sodium, potassium and fluid excretion during the trial period. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1597880/
Abstract: Autochthonous Wuchereria bancrofti microfilaraemic cases from three neighbouring cities of Northeast Brazil (Recife, Jaboatao and Olinda) were selected from thick smear or filtration positive individuals and classified by their microfilarial (mf) densities through polycarbonate membrane blood filtration. Individuals were subdivided into two groups: autochthonous cases without any previous specific drug administrations (group A) and those with one or more previous DEC treatments (group B). In Recife, unlike Jaboatao and Olinda (P less than 0.05), the majority of autochthonous cases were over 20 years old and no microfilaraemics were found under the age of 10. The majority of cases in Recife had lower levels of mf density (66.6%), while in Jaboatao and Olinda higher mf carriers (65.6%) prevailed when group A (n = 141) individuals were rearranged in mf density above and below 500 mf ml-1 (P less than 0.01). All subjects in group B (n = 110) had less than 501 mf ml-1 and the great majority less than 100 mf ml-1, but a significant difference (P less than 0.05) between Recife and the two other cities was observed. Captured mosquitoes in Recife, Jaboatao and Olinda totalled 7856, 8010 and 8003 respectively. The infectivity rate found in Recife (0.61%) was significantly lower than in Jaboatao (1.21%) and Olinda (1.31%) (P less than 0.001). The authors discuss the possible influences of previous disease control programmes (medicated salt and individual treatments) applied only to the city of Recife in relation to the outcome of this investigation. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1597847/
Abstract: In a placebo-controlled, double-blind, randomised, cross-over study the metabolic and hormonal responses to standard food and exercise challenge have been evaluated in seven patients with mild to moderate essential hypertension after treatment with nicardipine 30 mg three times daily for four weeks. There were no significant differences between nicardipine and placebo for any of the measured hormonal and metabolic indices following food or exercise. These results indicate that nicardipine has no clinically important effects on serum lipids or hormonal or metabolic responses to food and exercise. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1609503/
Abstract: Polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) are complex mixtures of chlorinated aromatic hydrocarbons which are classified as lipophilic xenobiotics in vivo. Because of their unusual thermal and insulating properties, widespread use in industry was commonplace. They eventually gained entry into the biota, and their diffuse distribution represents both a potential and actual risk to humans and animals due to their bioconcentration in the food chain and toxicity secondary to accidental occupational or environmental exposure. Experimental poisoning in various animal models demonstrates that PCBs are potent inducers of hepatic microsomal enzyme systems, transmitted transplacentally and produce reproductive dysfunction. They alter immune function by decreasing the cell-mediated response and, in addition to producing myriad manifestations, are tumorigenic. Human exposure to PCBs has been associated with similar abnormalities, but because of limited data their chronic toxicity has not been well established. This is the key problem to evaluating possible untoward health effects in humans. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1609497/
Abstract: A case of preventable fatality and a nearly greater disaster as a result of methyl bromide fumigation of a restaurant is presented. Methyl bromide is a nearly odorless, volatile hydrocarbon used as a fumigant in the food industry. As a result of this episode, recommendations are made for worker and community notification of the hazards involved whenever fumigation takes place. Addition of a mucosal irritant or olfactory stimulant is recommended to provide warning for methyl bromide exposure. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1609631/
Abstract: High caffeine consumption has been proposed as a risk factor for osteoporotic fracture, but the evidence associating high caffeine intake with low bone density is inconsistent. We therefore examined the influence of caffeine consumption on bone mineral at six skeletal sites in an age-stratified random sample of white women residing in Rochester, Minnesota. After age adjustment, there was no association between overall caffeine consumption and bone mineral at five of the six sites. In the femoral shaft, however, there was a statistically significant interaction between age and caffeine consumption so that high caffeine intake was associated with slight reductions in bone mineral among elderly subjects but with modestly increased bone mineral at younger ages. When caffeine intake was categorized by source, no consistent influence of coffee, tea, or other caffeinated beverage consumption could be detected on bone mineral. Caffeine intake was, however, positively associated with cigarette smoking and alcohol consumption. After adjusting for age, caffeine consumption was not correlated with biochemical indices of bone turnover, circulating concentrations of estradiol and estrone, or other dietary and musculoskeletal variables. These data suggest that caffeine intake in the range consumed by a representative sample of white women is not an important risk factor for osteoporosis. Among elderly women, however, in whom calcium balance performance is impaired, high caffeine intake may predispose to cortical bone loss from the proximal femur. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1609379/
Abstract: Background:
        
      
      A high sodium intake has been found to increase bronchial reactivity in men with asthma. The effects of change in sodium intake on peak flow rate have not been determined. Methods:
        
      
      The effect of changing dietary salt intake for two weeks on the severity of asthma as measured by peak expiratory flow (PEF) was studied in 17 patients with mild asthma in an open randomised crossover trial. PEF measurements were made by the patients in their own homes. Patients were placed on three levels of dietary sodium intake: normal, low, and high. Sodium intake was assessed by 24 hour urine collection. Results:
        
      
      The mean (SD) urine sodium was 147 (45), 84 (32), and 201 (73) mmol/24 hours in the normal, low, and high sodium intake periods respectively. There were no significant differences in PEF or PEF amplitude (highest--lowest PEF), an index of asthma lability, between the three dietary salt periods. CONCLUSION A low and high dietary salt intake for two weeks has no effect on peak expiratory flow in patients with mild asthma. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1609750/
Abstract: The vitamin A intake of 370 mothers and 183 children 3-27 mo of age in rural Bangladesh was ascertained monthly from January to July in 1986. For mothers, dark green leafy vegetables and fruits were the main sources of vitamin A. Vitamin A from vegetables, the single most important source, did not show consistent associations with wealth or with the other socioeconomic indicators. In May and June, fruits provided wealthier (and more educated) mothers with significantly higher vitamin A intakes than poor mothers, whereas in January the poorer mothers had higher intakes. When breast milk was included, average intakes for children came close to 100% of the recommended dietary allowance; the only other significant source of vitamin A for children was seasonally available mangoes. Fourteen children who had stopped breast-feeding by the end of the study were at very high risk of vitamin A deficiency when fruits were not plentiful. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1609748/
Abstract: We developed an in vitro assay system that mimics the physiological conditions for starch digestion. In this system all undigested starch was termed resistant starch (RS). The richest sources of RS were firm bananas and roasted chickpeas. Different food-processing techniques produced different amounts of RS. RS in uncooked oats (0.161 g/g dry wt) and firm bananas (0.247 g/g dry wt) was reduced by cooking to 0.028 and 0.032 g/g dry wt, respectively. Cooling boiled potato overnight at 4 degrees C produced a 2.8-fold increase in the amounts of RS. Whole rice contained more RS than did ground rice whereas grinding did not affect amounts of RS in roasted chickpeas. Amounts of RS in food decreased with increased chewing, indicating that chewing can also affect the amount of starch escaping digestion. This assay may be useful in predicting which foods and processing techniques result in high amounts of starch escaping digestion in the small intestine. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1609747/
Abstract: The influence of sow milk or infant formulas containing 18:2n-6 and 18:3n-3 (% fatty acids) at 30/1, 16/1, 35/4, or 16/4 on plasma and liver phospholipid (PL) and cholesterol ester (CE) arachidonic acid (20:4n-6) was studied in piglets fed from birth for 15 d. Piglets fed the 35/4, 16/1, and 16/4 formulas had a significantly lower percentage of plasma 20:4n-6 in PL than did piglets fed sow milk or the 30/1 formula. The lowest plasma PL 20:4n-6 was in the 16/4 group, the only group in which liver PL 20:4n-6 was significantly reduced. This suggests competitive inhibition of synthesis or acylation of 20:4n-6 when formula with a high content of 18:3n-3 is fed in conjunction with a low content of 18:2n-6. The percentage of plasma CE 20:4n-6 was not altered by formula feeding. In contrast, the liver CE 20:4n-6 was significantly lower in all formula-fed animals than it was in sow-milk-fed animals. These studies confirm that 20:4n-6 metabolism is altered in artificially fed neonates. Liver and plasma cholesterol concentrations were also significantly lower in all formula-fed than in milk-fed piglets. The potential relationship of the decrease in cholesterol to n-6 fatty acids in CE is unknown. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1609752/
Abstract: Identification of the andrological variables most sensitive to zinc depletion would expedite the diagnosis of male reproductive pathology induced by zinc deficiency. Eleven volunteers living on a metabolic ward were fed a diet composed of a mixture of a semisynthetic formula and conventional foods supplemented with ZnSO4 to supply a total of 1.4, 2.5, 3.4, 4.4, or 10.4 mg Zn/d. After an equilibration period of 28 d (10.4 mg Zn/d), all treatments were presented for 35 d each, the first four in random order and the fifth last. Compared with when they were consuming 10.4 mg Zn/d, volunteers consuming 1.4 mg Zn/d exhibited decreased semen volumes (3.30 vs 2.24 mL) and serum testosterone concentrations (26.9 vs 21.9 nmol/L), and no change in seminal zinc concentrations. Compared with 10.4 mg Zn/d, treatments of 1.4, 2.5, and 3.4 mg Zn/d decreased the total semen zinc loss per ejaculate (6.29 vs 3.81, 4.68, and 5.03 mumols/ejaculate). Seminal loss accounted for 9% of total body zinc loss when 1.4 mg Zn/d was consumed. Seminal phosphorus concentrations were elevated during all four phases of zinc depletion (28.4 vs 32.9, 31.0, 34.2, and 33.6 mmol/L). The findings suggest that serum testosterone concentrations, seminal volume, and total seminal zinc loss per ejaculate are sensitive to short-term zinc depletion in young men. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1609754/
Abstract: To evaluate malnutrition in chronic liver disease, and its relationship to nutrient deficiencies and hepatic dysfunction, 27 children with end-stage liver disease were studied. Mean protein-energy intakes were 70% of recommended daily intakes. The patients were underweight and stunted with reduced mean triceps and subscapular skinfold thicknesses and midupper arm circumference. Mean total body potassium was only 63 +/- 18% of that expected for age and sex. Deficiency of essential fatty acids (32%), and low concentrations of fat-soluble vitamins (A, 92%; E, 32%), iron (32%), zinc (42%), and selenium (13%) were common. Serum ammonia concentrations were raised in all patients, and increased methionine, tyrosine, and glutamic acid, and reduced glutamine concentrations were noted. There was no correlation between the degree of malnutrition and the degree of liver synthetic function, the degree of cholestasis, or the degree of liver injury. We suggest that potentially correctable factors in addition to liver failure (eg, inadequate absorbed intake) were important determinants of malnutrition in these patients. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1609753/
Abstract: Malnutrition is common in children with end-stage liver disease (ESLD) awaiting orthotopic liver transplantation (OLT), and nutritional support is assuming an important role in preoperative management. To evaluate preoperative nutritional therapy, 19 children (median age 1.25 y) with ESLD awaiting OLT were prospectively studied. Two high-energy, isoenergetic and isonitrogenous nutritional formulations delivered nasogastrically were compared: a branched-chain amino acid (BCAA)-enriched semielemental formulation and a matched standard semielemental formation. Twelve of 19 patients completed a randomized controlled study before OLT and 10 of 19 completed a full crossover study. Improvements in weight and height occurred during the BCAA supplements, with no statistical change on the standard formulation. Significant increases in total body potassium, midupper arm circumference, and subscapular skinfold thickness occurred during the BCAA supplements, whereas no significant changes occurred during the standard formulation period. Significantly fewer albumin infusions were required during the BCAA supplement. These findings suggest that BCAA-enriched formulas have advantages over standard semielemental formulas in improving nutritional status in children with ESLD, and are deserving of wider application and study. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1609756/
Abstract: Body-composition research is a branch of human biology that has three interconnecting areas: body-composition levels and their organizational rules, measurement techniques, and biological factors that influence body composition. In the first area, which is inadequately formulated at present, five levels of increasing complexity are proposed: I, atomic; II, molecular; III, cellular; IV, tissue-system; and V, whole body. Although each level and its multiple compartments are distinct, biochemical and physiological connections exist such that the model is consistent and functions as a whole. The model also provides the opportunity to clearly define the concept of a body composition steady state in which quantitative associations exist over a specified time interval between compartments at the same or different levels. Finally, the five-level model provides a matrix for creating explicit body-composition equations, reveals gaps in the study of human body composition, and suggests important new research areas. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1609755/
Abstract: We investigated the effects of dietary constituents on glomerular filtration (GFR) and albumin excretion rates (AERs) in a cross-sectional study in 39 young subjects with insulin-dependent diabetes. Dietary protein intake correlated significantly in patients with GFRs less than 150 mL/min per 1.73 m2 (r = 0.53, n = 23, P = 0.009), but not with AER. GFR also correlated with mean blood glucose at a concentration less than 12.0 mmol/L (r = 0.61, P = 0.0035). Protein and fat intakes were similar in patients with and without microalbuminuria (AER greater than 20 mg/L) but long-term glycemic control was worse in the former [HbA1 12.4 +/- 2.9% (mean +/- SD) and 10.6 +/- 2.1%, respectively, P = 0.043]. In seven patients, short-term reduction of dietary protein from 2.0 to 1.0 to 0.5 g.kg-1.d-1 produced a progressive fall in GFR by 11.6 +/- 6.0 and 9.6 +/- 5.9 mL/min, respectively (P less than 0.05), but did not consistently affect AER. We conclude that both dietary protein and glycemic control influence GFR but neither alone appears to explain glomerular hyperfiltration. Microalbuminuria was associated with poor glycemic control but not with dietary fat or protein consumption. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1609758/
Abstract: Dietary responses to dilution or supplementation of the energy value and macronutrient content of foods are poorly characterized in humans. After a 1-wk baseline, 16 free-living, normal-weight adults were provided midday meals systematically varying in energy, fat, and carbohydrate contents for 5-d periods. Their compensatory free-feeding intake was monitored through diet records. In response to energy dilution by carbohydrate or fat, mean daily energy intake was 88% and 97% of baseline, respectively. Responses to the energy surfeit led to intakes 104% and 116% of baseline, respectively. However, the absolute magnitude of the carbohydrate supplement challenge was small. Adjustments of macronutrient-specific intake during the high-carbohydrate, low-carbohydrate, high-fat, and low-fat meal periods were 134%, 91%, 165%, and 95% of baseline, respectively. Although these group findings indicate that defense against covert dilution of the energy, fat, or carbohydrate contents of a meal is stronger than that to supplementation, individual responses were highly variable. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1609757/
Abstract: Energy intakes assessed by 7-d weighted dietary records (EI-WDRs) and diet histories (EI-DHs) were compared with concurrent estimates of total energy expenditure (TEE) by the doubly labeled water method in 78 subjects aged 3-18 y. EI-WDRs were not obtained from the 3- and 5-y-old subjects. EI-WDRs in the 7- and 9-y-old children were 108 +/- 25% (n = 12) and 97 +/- 15% (n = 12), respectively, of corresponding TEE values showing good agreement. However in the 12-, 15-, and 18-y-old subjects EI-WDR averaged 89 +/- 12% (n = 12), 78 +/- 18% (n = 12), and 73 +/- 25% (n = 10), respectively, of corresponding TEE values. The difference was greater than or equal to 20% in 13 adolescents. Mean EI-DHs were 114 +/- 19% (3 y), 111 +/- 19% (5 y), 111 +/- 23% (7 y), 106 +/- 9% (9 y), 114 +/- 17% (12 y), 101 +/- 21% (15 y), and 98 +/- 21% (18 y) of TEE estimates. Differences were significant in the 3-, 9-, and 12-y-old subjects. Results suggest that 7-d EI-WDRs tend to underestimate food intake of adolescents. Although EI-DHs were biased towards overestimation in most age groups and individual measurements lacked precision, EI-DHs were more representative of habitual intake than were EI-WDRs. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1609765/
Abstract: To judge the effect on blood pressure, the ratio of polyunsaturated to saturated fatty acids (P:S) of foods served to students at two boarding high schools was modified alternately at each school for one school year. The average P:S of the diet of males increased from 0.53 to 0.93 during the intervention whereas among females it increased from 0.64 to 0.98. Comparison of repeated systolic and diastolic blood pressure measurements near the end of the school year did not demonstrate a beneficial effect of the dietary fat changes on the blood pressure of these normotensive adolescents. Compared with the blood pressure patterns during control years, the dietary intervention resulted in slightly higher systolic (+0.88 mm Hg; 95% CI -0.66, +2.42) and diastolic (+1.23 mm Hg; 95% CI = +0.04, +2.42) blood pressure readings among males. Among females the intervention resulted in slightly lower systolic (-0.54 mm Hg; 95% CI = -1.95, +0.88) and diastolic (-0.80 mm Hg (95% CI -2.18, +0.58) blood pressure readings. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1609761/
Abstract: Previous surveys suggested that young children in Northeast Thailand may benefit from vitamin A and/or zinc supplementation. One hundred thirty-three children aged 6-13 y with marginal plasma retinol (less than 1.05 mumol/L) and Zn (less than 12.2 mumol/L) concentrations participated in a double-blind study. They were randomly assigned and supplemented with either zinc (25 mg/d), vitamin A (1500 RE/d), zinc plus vitamin A, or placebo for 6 mo. Biochemical indices of vitamin A (plasma vitamin A, retinol-binding protein) and zinc status (plasma zinc, alkaline phosphatase) increased significantly. The children had adequate liver stores of vitamin A (relative dose response less than 20%). Zinc supplementation resulted in an improvement in vision restoration time (VRT) in dim light (dark adaptometry). Vitamin A and zinc synergistically normalized conjunctival epithelium as measured by conjunctival impression cytology (CIC). Both functional indices, VRT and CIC, showed significant correlations with plasma zinc and vitamin A, respectively. The data suggest that functional improvements in populations with suboptimal vitamin A and zinc nutriture can be accomplished by supplementation with less than two times the recommended dietary allowance of these nutrients. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1609760/
Abstract: The separate effects of energy restriction and weight loss on serum lipids were studied in 24 postmenopausal moderately obese women before and after weight loss of greater than 10 kg to normal weight. Fasting serum triglycerides (TGs), total cholesterol (TC), high-density-lipoprotein (HDL) and low-density-lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol, and insulin were measured at the end of four 10-d in-hospital phases, two before and two after weight loss: phase I, stable weight; phase II, 3350 kJ/d(800 kcal/d), followed by outpatient weight loss; phase III, 3350 kJ/d (800 kcal/d); and phase IV, stable weight. Diet composition and exercise were constant the entire study. Energy-restriction effect was determined by comparing average values in stable-weight phases (I and IV) with low-energy phases (II and III); weight-loss effect was determined by comparing values in obese phases (I and II) with reduced-weight phases (III and IV). Energy restriction lowered TG, TC, LDL cholesterol, the LDL-HDL cholesterol ratio, and insulin and raised HDL cholesterol (all P less than 0.05). Weight loss lowered TG, TC, LDL cholesterol, and insulin (all P less than 0.01) but did not change HDL cholesterol or the LDL-HDL cholesterol ratio. The results suggest that reduction to a weight-steady nonobese state significantly lowers TG, TC, and LDL cholesterol but does not improve HDL cholesterol or the LDL-HDL cholesterol ratio. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1609832/
Abstract: The search for biochemical abnormalities in the neuronal ceroid-lipofuscinoses (NCL) or Batten disease was initiated with the discovery of normal levels of gangliosides in juvenile amaurotic idiocy. The primary goal of most biochemical studies has been to discover the unique biochemical marker for carriers and at-risk individual. Ceroid, the singular pathomorphologic trait of NCL, was isolated and shown to differ from a similar but normal product of aged cells, lipofuscin. In spite of the availability of stored product, the chemical analysis of ceroid has not elucidated the unique biochemical defect in the NCL, as has been the case for other lysosomal storage disorders. The NCL were thought to be a result of lipid peroxidation because ceroid is also found in disorders of impaired vitamin E metabolism or results from a diet deficient in the antioxidant, vitamin E. In addition, tissue analysis indicated losses of polyunsaturated fatty acids in affecteds and carriers, as well as the presence of a secondary product of lipid peroxidation, 4-hydroxynonenal, in affected and carrier NCL dogs. With the exception of a fluorescent compound isolated from retinal ceroid, studies aimed at discovering the disease-specific fluorophores of ceroid have been largely inconclusive. The discovery of elevated dolichols in urine and brain tissue of NCL patients led to another hypothesis, that the basic biochemical defect in NCL involved the metabolism of dolichols and retinoids. However, the more recent view is that dolichol metabolism is secondary to the unknown NCL lesion.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS) 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1609766/
Abstract: To determine the effects of dietary fat saturation on plasma lipoproteins, we studied 21 free-living normolipidemic women (13 pre- and 8 postmenopausal) on three consecutive diet periods. During the first 4 wk they consumed a saturated diet rich in palm oil and butter [19% saturated fatty acids (S), 14% monounsaturated fatty acids (M), and 3.5% polyunsaturated fatty acids (P)], followed by 6 wk of a monounsaturated diet rich in olive oil (11% S, 22% M, and 3.6% P), and 6 wk of a polyunsaturated diet rich in sunflower oil (10.7% S, 12.5% M, and 12.8% P). Compared with the diet rich in saturated fatty acids, both diets rich in unsaturated fatty acids had similar lowering effects on total and low-density-lipoprotein cholesterol. High-density lipoprotein cholesterol and apolipoprotein A-I were higher in the monounsaturated-rich period than in the polyunsaturated-rich (10.5% and 12.7% respectively, P less than 0.001) and the saturated-rich period (5.3%, and 7.9%, respectively, P less than 0.05). These effects were independent of menopause status. Our data show that at this level of fat intake (36% as calories), a monounsaturated-rich diet results in a less atherogenic lipid profile than either polyunsaturated- or saturated-rich diets. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1609878/
Abstract: Six patients with anorexia nervosa, the same patients after weight normalization, and six healthy control subjects had similar fasting and postprandial plasma cholecystokinin concentrations. These data do not support the hypothesis that low levels of hunger and food intake in anorexic patients reflect hypersecretion of this endogenous hormone, which is thought to inhibit hunger, promote satiety, and reduce feeding. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1609767/
Abstract: Nutrient and energy intakes, hunger, and fullness were examined after the replacement of 36, 20, or 0 g fat in breakfast with olestra, a noncaloric fat substitute. Twenty-four lean, nondieting men (aged 21-30 y) participated in a placebo-controlled, three-condition crossover design. Self-selected, ad libitum intakes at lunch and dinner were monitored in the laboratory. Evening snacks and breakfast the next day were assessed through food diaries. Visual-analog-scale ratings including hunger and fullness were collected throughout the test days. Single-meal olestra substitution produced a significant dose-related reduction in the amount and percentage of energy from fat consumed daily with a reciprocal increase in carbohydrate intake. Daily energy intakes were not significantly different nor did ratings of hunger and fullness vary systematically between conditions. Consumption of olestra can reduce fat intake and increase carbohydrate intake without affecting total daily energy intake or usual patterns of hunger and fullness. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1610027/
Abstract: There is controversy over the role of age of asthma onset in childhood asthma. Data collected on self-reported physician-diagnosed asthmatic children and young adults aged 6-24 years (N = 352), who participated in the second National Health and Nutritional Examination, 1976-80 (NHANES II), a national sample, were examined to see whether reported age at onset was associated with the future course of the asthma. Three definitions were used for early-onset asthma: asthma beginning before the second birthday, before the third birthday, and before the fourth birthday. Late-onset asthma was defined as asthma beginning on or after the second birthday, the third birthday, and the fourth birthday, respectively. Among 6-14 year olds, late-onset asthmatic subjects as compared with early-onset asthmatic subjects using the three definitions reported more allergic rhinitis OR = 3.79 (95% CI 1.53, 9.41), 3.06 (1.33, 7.07), 2.71 (1.18, 6.22), and were more likely to have at least one positive allergen skin test OR = 2.21 (95% CI 1.02, 4.79), 2.90 (1.29, 6.49), 3.41 (1.50, 7.75). Late-onset asthmatic subjects tended to report that their asthma was active, have more problems during the past 12 months with wheezing, and have lower values for predicted FVC and FEV1. No difference was found in reported chronic rhinitis, sinusitis, other allergies, problems within the last 12 months with cough attacks, or during the past 3 years a period of cough and phlegm lasting more than 3 weeks.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS) 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1609901/
Abstract: In this study birthweight distributions for Mexican Americans and Mexico City were compared. Sharp differences in the two distributions were nearly eliminated by controlling for altitude. The small remaining excess in low birthweight in Mexico City appears to be due to a slight overrepresentation of tertiary hospital deliveries, and possibly to a greater prevalence of pathological conditions. The results are consistent with the favorable low birthweight rate reported for Mexican Americans and illustrate the need to adjust for altitude in studies of low birthweight. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1609905/
Abstract: Environmental, self-report, and demographic factors mediated the relationship between self-reported cigarette smoking and carboxyhemoglobin among 2114 smokers and 3918 nonsmokers. Self-reported nonsmokers with carboxyhemoglobin levels between 2% and 3% were more likely to be self-reported ex-smokers, to live in a larger community, and to be younger, less educated, and male than were self-reported nonsmokers with carboxyhemoglobin levels of less than 2%. Self-reported nonsmokers with strong evidence of cigarette consumption (carboxyhemoglobin level greater than 3%) were more likely to be self-reported ex-smokers, younger, less educated, and non-White than were nonsmokers with carboxyhemoglobin levels of less than 2%. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1610023/
Abstract: Hypersensitivity to mollusk has rarely been described in the literature. Among the mollusks, the cephalopods are a group of great importance as a food source. We report seven patients who had had symptoms highly suggestive of IgE-mediated reactions after ingesting squid or inhaling vapors from cooking squid. All had previously suffered from persistent rhinitis or asthma for years. In addition, six of the seven patients had had symptoms after ingesting shrimp. Skin prick tests were strongly positive for boiled squid extract and for various commercial crustacean extracts. Specific IgE antibodies against boiled extract and several crustacean extracts were demonstrated in all patients by RAST and reverse enzyme immunoassay. Cross reactivity between squid and shrimp and other crustaceans was demonstrated by reverse immunoassay inhibition studies. Cross reactivity could not be demonstrated between squid and octopus, which are both cephalopods, nor between squid and other mollusks. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1619768/
Abstract: Disorders in the autonomic nervous system occur frequently in cases with alcoholism or various intoxications. Drugs, especially those related to neurotransmitters may induce complicated symptoms in the sympathetic or parasympathetic nervous system. Some of these symptoms are accompanied by peripheral neuropathy. Intoxication, especially alcoholism is often are combined with a malnutrition, such as avitaminosis. Dysautonomic symptoms change successively; at an early stage, drugs or toxins stimulate sympathetic or parasympathetic receptors, while the same receptors are inhibited at a later stage when the concentration of the substances rises in the blood. Frequent stimulations of the same receptor may produce change in the sensitivity of receptors, decreased metabolism or addiction. These changes suggest that a different approach towards the acute and chronic autonomic disorders caused by intoxications is needed. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1619531/
Abstract: Conflicting results have been reported on the use of the steatocrit to measure fecal fat excretion. Aiming to assess the reliability of this method and its usefulness in the diagnosis of intestinal enteropathies, we measured the steatocrit in 747 healthy children and 442 children with diarrhea grouped according to diagnosis. The steatocrit was found to correlate strictly (r = 0.93) with the chemical measurement of fecal fat. Reference values and ranges were established. The maximal steatocrit was observed in neonates; afterwards, it progressively decreased to an undetectable level in children older than 2 years of age. A steatocrit abnormally high for age was found in 20% of patients with acute diarrhea and in 53% of those with chronic diarrhea. All celiac patients with a gluten-containing diet showed a marked increase of steatocrit. We conclude that the steatocrit is a reliable and easy-to-perform test, which quickly provides valuable information in the diagnostic workup of the child with diarrhea. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1619465/
Abstract: Erythropoietin (EPO), a glycoprotein produced mainly by the kidney, is the major physiological regulator of erythropoiesis. We developed a sensitive and rapid ELISA for measurement of rat serum EPO with two monoclonal antibodies that recognize different epitopes. To understand the mechanism by which erythropoiesis is impaired in rats deficient in dietary protein, we investigated the levels of the immunoreactive EPO (iEPO) in serums and erythroid precursor cells in hemopoietic tissues during protein deprivation. The iEPO level of 32-d-old rats fed a protein-free diet was lowered to one-third that of rats fed 20% casein at 6 h after protein deprivation began. Protein deprivation decreased the number of EPO-responsive cells in spleen. These results indicate that the impairment of erythropoiesis during protein deficiency is caused by the decrease in serum EPO and the subsequent reduction of the population size of erythroid precursor cells in spleen. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1619532/
Abstract: The factors which determine whether an individual is a methane excretor or a nonexcretor are not clearly understood. Genetic makeup, ethnic origin, diet, environment, or an interaction of all these factors have been implicated. In order to delineate the incidence, the age of onset, and environmental factors that may influence the excretion of methane in our community, we investigated a total of 425 Chinese children in Hong Kong (204 females, 221 males). End-expiratory breath samples were collected after an overnight fast and measured by gas-chromatography using a flame ionization detector. Thirty one children (7.3%) excreted at least 1 ppm methane above the ambient level (median = 6.4, range = 1.8-26.0 ppm). There was no difference in methane excretion status and pattern between the sexes or between children who lived at home and those who lived at an institution. There was a general increase in the number of methane excretors with age, but a statistically significant increase was reached only after 14 years of age. The amount of methane excreted was unrelated to age and there were no excretors detected under the age of 5 years. It is concluded that the methane excretion pattern of these children was generally similar to those previously reported from other regions, but the incidence is much lower and the age of onset appears to be more gradual. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1619469/
Abstract: Many researchers have reported lower hemoglobin concentrations in blacks than in whites, but the reason for this difference is unknown. Data for 2515 persons (in 3-12 y and 18-45 y age groups) from the Second National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES II) were evaluated to investigate the roles of iron intake and biochemical iron status indicators in explaining black and white differences in hemoglobin concentration. Dietary iron intake was estimated from one 24-h food recall, and hemoglobin, serum ferritin, transferrin saturation and erythrocyte protoporphyrin were measured by standard laboratory methods. Hemoglobin levels were substantially lower in black children (120.3 g/L) than in white children (126.8 g/L). Hemoglobin concentrations were also lower in black women (128.4 g/L) than in white women (133.9 g/L), and in black men (144.8 g/L) than in white men (153.2 g/L). Blacks had lower hemoglobin concentration than whites at most levels of dietary iron intake, serum ferritin, transferrin saturation and erythrocyte protoporphyrin. Despite their lower hemoglobin levels, blacks had higher serum ferritin levels than whites. These results suggest that the difference in hemoglobin concentrations between blacks and whites in the United States is the result of factors other than iron intake and iron status. More specific investigations of both the genetic and environmental determinants of iron utilization in blacks are needed. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1619683/
Abstract: Background:
        
      
      Although the results of animal studies and cross-cultural comparisons generally support a role for dietary fat in the etiology of breast cancer, results of analytic epidemiology studies are equivocal. Purpose:
        
      
      The association between dietary fat and subsequent breast cancer was examined in a cohort of 34,388 postmenopausal women from Iowa. Methods:
        
      
      Dietary habits were assessed by a food-frequency questionnaire mailed in January 1986. Through December 31, 1989, 459 incident cases of breast cancer occurred in this cohort. Proportional hazards regression was used to examine the dietary fat-breast cancer association while adjusting for potential confounders. The effects on this association of four analytic approaches to adjustment for energy intake were also considered. Results:
        
      
      After adjustment for known determinants of breast cancer, a modest positive association of total fat intake with risk of breast cancer was seen. Polyunsaturated fat intake was also positively associated with breast cancer (relative risk from lowest to highest intake, 1.0, 1.25, 1.31, and 1.49; P for trend = .052). Different approaches to adjustment for energy intake, however, provided different impressions of the dietary fat-breast cancer association. One method, involving categorization of crude fat intake and inclusion of total energy intake in regression analysis, gave relative risk estimates from low to high fat intake of 1.0, 1.17, 1.25, and 1.38 (P for trend = .18). Another method, based on categorization of fat intake residuals in which the variation in fat due to total energy intake was removed, gave corresponding estimates of 1.0, 1.24, 1.30, and 1.16 (P for trend = .29). The former suggests increasing breast cancer risk with increasing fat intake; the latter suggests no association. Conclusions:
        
      
      These results are consistent with other cohort studies that have shown a weak association or no association between dietary fat and breast cancer. They are also consistent with studies suggesting that fat intake is a determinant of breast cancer, particularly after accounting for inaccuracies in dietary assessment. The effects of different energy-adjustment methods may account in part for the varying interpretations of four previous cohort studies of dietary fat and breast cancer. Implications:
        
      
      Further work is needed to clarify not only the nature of the dietary fat-breast cancer association, but also the impact of different analytic methods used in the investigation of diet-disease associations. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1619590/
Abstract: The effects of exposure to competitive mental stressors on rates of excretion of sodium (Na), potassium (K) and fluid, together with cardiovascular responses, were evaluated in 14 black and 14 white normotensive men after 3 days of controlled diet (200 mEq Na, 100 mEq K daily). In the first hour of a 5-hr protocol, subjects ingested a standard dinner and drank 1 liter of water. In hours 2-5, they voided to provide urine collections every 30 min, and drank 200 ml additional water after each collection. Hours 1-2 were for stabilization of excretion, hour 3 was baseline, hour 4 was stress and hour 5 was post-stress rest. During stress, 20 men showed faster natriuresis and 8 showed slower natriuresis than at baseline. These subgroups did not differ in any excretion measure at baseline. During stress, the slow stress natriuresis group showed slower excretion of potassium and fluid as well as sodium; slow natriuresis and kaliuresis persisted 30 min after stress. Creatinine clearance rate was also decreased, but only during the first 30 min of stress. Slow stress natriuresis subjects were found to have higher blood pressures during baseline and stress, greater heart rate and cardiac output increases during stress, and a larger percentage had hypertensive parents (63 vs 37%) compared to fast stress natriuresis subjects. Slow stress natriuresis was observed in 50 vs 17% of men with resting diastolic levels above vs below 80 mmHg, and in 43% of blacks vs 18% of whites tested. Overall, black subjects tended to excrete sodium more slowly than whites at baseline, and showed significantly lesser increases in sodium excretion rate when pressures rose during stress. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1619500/
Abstract: Background:
        
      
      Atherosclerosis is a major cause of morbidity and mortality in insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus. Recent studies have shown that albuminuria is a predictor of cardiovascular disease in these patients and there is a particularly high incidence of coronary heart disease in the early stages of albuminuria. Available evidence:
        
      
      A number of established cardiovascular risk factors, such as elevated blood pressure, atherogenic changes in the plasma concentrations of lipids and lipoproteins, elevated plasma levels of fibrinogen and, probably, hyper-reactivity of platelets are present in patients with diabetic nephropathy. Further, albuminuria may be a marker of generalized disease in the vascular wall of small and large blood vessels. Findings of an elevated rate of transcapillary albumin escape, an elevated plasma concentration of von Willebrand's factor and impaired fibrinolytic capacity in early diabetic nephropathy support this hypothesis. Conclusion:
        
      
      The initial pathophysiological mechanisms involved in diabetic nephropathy are still hypothetical and largely unknown. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1619870/
Abstract: The experience with treatment of 214 patients suffering from diabetic angiopathy complicated by purulent-necrotic tissue lesion, which included intraarterial administration of antibiotics, insulin, novocaine, vasodilators, antiaggregants, anticoagulants, vitamins, is summarized. In soft tissue necrosis, gangrene of the toes, or foot, the necrotized tissues were excised, exarticulation, or amputation of toes, metatarsals, in extreme cases, amputation of a leg at the thigh level, were performed. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1619784/
Abstract: In a case-control study to determine the risk of developing lung cancer, the serum levels of vitamins A and E, carotene and selenium were determined in 31 patients, newly diagnosed as having lung cancer, and in matched controls, the said controls being selected from outpatients with no cancer. A significant, inverse association was found between serum vitamins A and E and lung cancer. The relative risk for the low vs high tertiles were, respectively, 5.94 for serum vitamin A and 8.44 for serum vitamin E. Taking histological cancer subtype into account, no relation was revealed between the microelements and squamous cell carcinoma of the lung. The relative risk for lung cancer was 6.50, however, when three, or all four, microelement levels were in the lowest tertile, compared with there being fewer than three in the lowest tertile. Even when three microelements, excluding vitamin E which had the most significant inverse association with lung cancer, were considered, the relative risk was 7.50 when any two or all three were in the lowest tertile, compared with there being just one microelement or none at all in the lowest tertile. A combined effect of vitamins A and E, carotene and selenium on the development of lung cancer has, therefore, been suggested. Further studies will thus be necessary to elucidate the cumulative effect of the serum micronutrients and trace elements, as well as the effect of single elements, on the development of lung cancer. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1619948/
Abstract: Food comminution during chewing is the composite result of selection and breakage. In the selection process, every food particle has a chance of being placed between the antagonistic post-canine teeth and being subjected to subsequent breakage. The selection chance, being the ratio between the number of selected and offered particles, has been mathematically described as a function of the number of particles offered, in terms of the number of breakage sites available on the teeth and particle affinity, i.e. the fraction of breakage sites occupied by one particle. The assumption has been made that particles are successively selected during a jaw-closing phase and that the selection chance of subsequent particles having the opportunity to occupy a breakage site proportionally decreases with the unoccupied fraction of the breakage sites left. The number of selected particles of a single size then asymptotically approaches the total number of breakage sites available for that size, when the number of particles offered increases. The critical particle number, derived from the measure of particle affinity, indicates the number of particles by which the breakage sites become saturated. The selection model for single particle sizes has been successfully applied to describe one-chew experiments, using various numbers and sizes of particles made of a silicone-rubber. After pseudo-chewing movements the subjects were unexpectedly instructed to carry out a real chew on particles (half-cubes). Undamaged, hence non-selected half-cubes could afterwards be distinguished from broken particles. The model has been extended to a particle mixture to describe the selection of particles of a certain size while other particles of different sizes are present. If a two-way competition between smaller and larger particles is assumed, the model predicts that the ratios of the selection chances between different particle sizes do not depend upon the numbers of the particles in the mixture. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1619903/
Abstract: The status of school-based nutrition education at the state agency level was examined. Telephone interviews with agencies in all 50 states revealed that nine states mandated nutrition be taught and another 21 included nutrition as a required topic in mandated subjects, frequently health. The other states had initiatives to promote school-based nutrition education but it was not required. Published requirements for teacher certification in elementary education, home economics, and health education seldom (two to three states) specified nutrition as a requirement. However, follow-up investigations revealed many states indirectly promote nutrition preparation for home economics and health education teachers through guidelines for approval of college programs in these areas. An inventory of nutrition education curricular materials revealed they were most frequently directed to grades K-6 and focused mainly on general foods and nutrition or that related to health. Given the links that emerged between health and nutrition, incorporating nutrition into health education may help promote school-based nutrition education. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1619933/
Abstract: The purpose of this study was to evaluate the detectability of an effect of moderate alcoholic beverage consumption on the biologic correlate of postmenopausal estradiol levels. Total weekly consumption and beverage-specific intake were assessed using both self-reported usual consumption information and prospective food record data. In terms of total weekly drinks, discrepancies were observed in 35 of the 101 women who reported alcohol use; no consistent pattern of overreporting/underreporting was seen. Although the two alcohol estimates were highly correlated, the relationship between estradiol levels and total weekly alcohol intake was found to be detectable when alcohol consumption based on the food record data was analyzed, but not when the self-report data were examined in a two-tailed hypothesis-testing situation. Evaluating the association between postmenopausal estradiol levels and the two estimates of alcohol intake in random samples of varying sample sizes generated from the mother population of 128 normal postmenopausal women confirmed the finding that the prospectively obtained alcohol data better predict the relationship. Based on the results of this study, it must be concluded that self-reported usual alcohol consumption data must be used with caution when examining an association between alcohol intake and a biologic effect. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1619985/
Abstract: Treatment with beta 2-agonists promotes fat loss and muscle growth in numerous species, but human studies are lacking. We studied the effect of a compound with beta 2-agonistic properties (ephedrine 20 mg/caffeine 200 mg [E + C]). Fourteen obese women were treated with a 4.2-MJ/d diet and either E + C or placebo (P) three times per day for 8 weeks in a double-blind study. Weight-loss was not different in the groups, but the E + C group lost 4.5 kg more body fat and 2.8 kg less fat-free mass (FFM). The decrease in 24-hour energy expenditure (EE) seen in the P group was 10% at day 1 and 13% at day 56, but was only 7% and 8% in the treated group (P = .044). The higher EE in the E +C group was entirely covered by fat oxidation. These findings provide evidence that promotion of fat loss and preservation of FFM during weight reduction may also be achieved pharmacologically in humans. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1619993/
Abstract: To investigate energy requirements in healthy elderly subjects, we assessed the association of total energy expenditure (TEE) with resting metabolic rate (RMR), physical activity, body composition, and energy intake in 13 individuals (aged 56 to 78 years, six women and seven men). Free-living TEE was measured using doubly labeled water, RMR was measured by respiratory gas analysis, and energy expenditure of physical activity (EEPA) was derived from the difference between TEE and RMR, assuming the thermic response to feeding contributes 10% of TEE. Fat mass (FM) and fat-free mass (FFM) were obtained from underwater weighing, VO2max was determined from a bicycle test to exhaustion, energy intake was obtained from a 3-day food diary, and leisure time activity (LTA) was determined by structured interview. TEE was 2,406 +/- 438 kcal/d (range, 1,856 to 3,200 kcal/d, or 1.25 to 2.11 times RMR) and was related to VO2max (r = .79, P = .001), LTA (r = .74, P = .004), FFM (r = .69, P = .009), and FM (r = -.64, P = .018). The association between TEE and VO2max persisted after adjustment for FFM (partial r = .58, P = .036). EEPA was related to LTA (r = .83, P less than .0001) and FM (r = -.58, P = .039). Energy intake underestimated TEE by 31% +/- 18% in women and by 12% +/- 11% in men. Using stepwise regression, TEE was best predicted by VO2max and LTA (total adjusted r2 = .86). We conclude the following: (1) TEE varies greatly within healthy elderly subjects due to variations in physical activity; (2) VO2max has an important role in predicting energy requirements in older individuals; and (3) healthy older individuals underreport energy intake. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1620392/
Abstract: In the summer of 1988, a large epidemic of acute pharyngitis occurred in an Israeli military base. The clinical features were those of acute pharyngitis. The epidemic curve was characteristic of a common-source outbreak, possibly food-borne. Throat swabs from a sample of cases were positive for group A streptococci. Nine isolates from the epidemic were further evaluated at the local reference laboratory and serotyping showed that all were of the same strain with a distinct M protein that is a hitherto undescribed variant of M-29. We discuss the significance of unusual strains of beta-hemolytic Streptococcus appearing in food-borne outbreaks. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1620384/
Abstract: In a search for parameters that could predict the chances of success in a 3-month basic training program of a Special Forces unit, 293 conscripts were studied before the start of the training period. Physical activities, smoking habits, and dietary and drinking habits were evaluated by questionnaire. Anthropometric values were noted. A blood sample was taken for determination of serum cholesterol, high-density lipoprotein (HDL)-cholesterol and gamma-glutamyltranspeptidase (GGT). Physical capacity was assessed by bicycle ergometry. Sixty-five trainees were discontinued from the program for intercurrent diseases or trauma, 132 went successfully through the whole program (group S), and 96 trainees failed (group F). More candidates of group S stated that they participated in sports (p less than 0.01) and fewer smoked (p less than 0.01) than in group F. Trainees of group F had a higher consumption of spirits (p less than 0.05) than trainees of group S. There was no difference between the two groups in weight, percentage body fat, physical capacity, total serum cholesterol, and GGT values. HDL-cholesterol was higher in group S compared to group F (p less than 0.01). Stepwise discriminant analysis applied to anthropometric, biochemical, and cycloergometric data indicated HDL-cholesterol, height, resting heart rate, heart frequency at maximal exercise, and serum cholesterol as significant discriminating variables (p less than 0.001), giving only a 63% chance of correctly classifying the candidates. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1620074/
Abstract: In 104 children with atopic dermatitis (AD) and RAST tests for 2 inhalant and 9 food allergen mixtures, RAST results, severity of skin involvement and presence of respiratory symptoms by history were analyzed in addition to total serum IgE values available in 66 children. Overall frequency of sensibilization was high (74%) with more positive RAST results for foods than inhalants, although of the latter the only two tested were among the more frequently positive. When the subjects positive for inhalants were considered alone, the frequency of respiratory symptoms was significantly higher in those sensitized to both inhalant mixtures tested (dermatophagoides and graminaceae) and the presence of more severe skin lesions was more common among those sensitized to graminaceae. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1619998/
Abstract: While dietary galactose restriction eliminates the life-threatening complications of classic galactosemia, central nervous system and ovarian disease are still evident in these patients, despite milk restriction. Because of the possibility that reduced tissue levels of uridine diphosphate galactose (UDPgalactose), the product of the deficient enzyme, galactose-1-phosphate uridyltransferase, are the cause of these unexplained complications, we have measured the concentration of red blood cell (RBC) uridine sugar nucleotides in these patients, comparing their values not only with those of normal subjects, but also with those of children who have other metabolic disorders. RBC UDPgalactose and uridine diphosphate glucose (UDPglucose) levels were measured by high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) in 35 control subjects, 24 galactosemic patients, and 19 patients with inborn errors of amino acid, organic acid, or ammonia metabolism. The last group of patients served as dietary controls, as they were all on special low-protein diets that restricted milk intake. The mean levels of UDPgalactose in galactosemic children and adults were 38% and 54% lower, respectively, than the levels in normal children and adults. While only six of 19 galactosemic children had levels below the 95% confidence limit for normals, four of five galactosemic adults had levels of UDPgalactose in the low range. The mean UDPgalactose level in children with other metabolic diseases who were on a low-milk diet was also reduced by 38%, with a mean not significantly different from galactosemics. Compared with normal adults, the level of UDPglucose in galactosemic adults was also reduced by 29%, with three of five affected adults having UDPglucose values below the 95% confidence limit.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS) 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1620830/
Abstract: The safety and long-term effectiveness of fluoroscopically guided balloon dilation for corrosive esophageal stricture was evaluated in 22 patients with a follow-up period of more than 1 year (range, 13-52 months). The average interval between corrosive agent ingestion and initial balloon dilation was 18 years (range, 2 months to 51 years). Balloons with a diameter of 5-8 mm were used in the initial attempt. The caliber of the balloon catheter was increased gradually over subsequent dilations, up to a diameter that allowed patients to swallow solid foods. Dilation of more than 17 mm in diameter was performed in five patients. Patients underwent one to five sessions. Esophageal rupture occurred in seven patients and was treated nonoperatively in five and surgically in two. With exclusion of these latter two, 11 of 20 could tolerate swallowing all kinds of food and nine could tolerate swallowing most foods. Balloon dilation in corrosive esophageal strictures is effective, but the high rupture rate indicates the need for extra caution. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1620142/
Abstract: The potential difference in the concentration-effect relationship of oral sequential doses of levodopa was explored in six Parkinsonian patients with complex fluctuating response. These patients showed "wearing-off phenomena" characterized by a transient worsening of motor function at the end of the first morning dose response to below baseline values and complained of a progressive reduction of levodopa effect during the day. A first standard levodopa dose was given in the morning, after an overnight fast and levodopa withdrawal. A second equal levodopa dose was administered immediately at the end of the first dose deterioration phase. Postimprovement worsening of motor response was also observed after the second levodopa dose in all patients. No significant difference in the pharmacokinetics of levodopa or in duration or magnitude of motor response could be appreciated between the two doses. These results further support the suggestion that, under controlled dietary conditions, plasma levodopa levels and effects relationship is reproducible between doses. Moreover, even when transient deterioration of motor function occurs between levodopa doses, the central dopaminergic system appears to remain responsive to the drug. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1619994/
Abstract: To determine the reliability of the measurement of postprandial thermogenesis by indirect calorimetry and to clarify further the relationship of obesity to thermogenesis in men, the thermic effect of a 720-kcal, mixed liquid meal was compared in 13 lean men (mean +/- SEM, 11.2% +/- 1.4% body fat), 10 average men (22.4% +/- 1.6% body fat), and 12 obese men (33.4% +/- 1.6% body fat) on two occasions. Resting metabolic rate (RMR) was measured for 3 hours: (1) in the fasted state, and (2) after a 720-kcal mixed liquid meal, on two occasions. The thermic effect of the meal, calculated as the postprandial energy expenditure minus the fasting RMR (kcal/3h), was greater for the lean and average men than for the obese men during both trials (P less than .001), but was only marginally different between the lean and average groups (P = .16). The mean values for the two trials were similar and the measurement of thermogenesis was highly reproducible with a reliability coefficient of r = .932 (P less than .001). Across all groups, thermogenesis correlated strongly with percent body fat (r = -.64, P less than .01), but within the average men, thermogenesis was uncorrelated with percent body fat (r = .09) but highly correlated with the glucose response to the meal (r = -.75, P less than .05). Thus, factors other than body fatness, such as insulin sensitivity, may determine thermogenesis within this heterogeneous middle group.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS) 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1631245/
Abstract: All infections no matter how mild decrease nutrient intakes and increase nutrient losses even when subclinical. The losses include decreased intestinal absorption, direct loss of nutrients in the gut, internal diversion for metabolic responses to infection and increased BMR when fever is present. Infection influences in this way not only protein and energy status but also that of most other nutrients. The clinical importance of these consequences of infection depends on the prior state of the individual, the nature and duration of the infection and the diet of the individual during the infection, particularly dietary intake during the convalescent period and whether full recovery takes place before another infection occurs. In industrialized countries particular attention must be paid to the nutrition of hospitalized patients since they are frequently debilitated by their primary disease, morbidity, and their nutritional status. Morbidity and mortality are increased by nosocomial infections to which the poorly nourished individual is more susceptible. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1631351/
Abstract: In this review, the process of dietary pesticide risk assessment has been presented and three major components of the process--estimation of pesticide residue levels, estimation of food consumption patterns, and characterization of risk based on a comparison of exposure estimates with toxicological criteria--have been identified. Each component of the process is subject to considerable uncertainty that may compromise the accuracy of the final risk assessment. In estimating pesticide residue levels, common practices range from highly theoretical models assuming that all residues are present at a predetermined level (typically at the tolerance level) to the use of market basket survey data obtained at the time the food is ready for consumption. Intermediate techniques include using actual monitoring data (usually obtained from government residue enforcement programs) and/or making corrections to estimates on the basis of actual pesticide use. Additional corrections may be used to incorporate data on the effects of post-harvest practices such as processing, washing, cooking, peeling, and transportation that have often been shown to dramatically reduce residue levels, although occasional increases in residue levels and/or formation of toxicologically significant breakdown products may also result from post-harvest practices. Food consumption estimates are typically derived from national surveys of consumer food consumption behavior and are also subject to considerable uncertainty. Food consumption estimates are often disaggregated into distinct population subgroups based on age, gender, geographic region, and ethnicity, although the accuracy of estimates for particular subgroups is commonly questioned on the basis of the adequacy of sample size. At the present time, data from the 1977-78 Nationwide Food Consumption Survey are still being used, and the incorporation of more recent data from the 1987-88 Nationwide Food Consumption Survey is being delayed due to major flaws in the study. On occasion, other food consumption surveys may be used, although they are typically much smaller in scope than the 1977-78 and 1987-88 studies and are considered less reliable. The multiplication of residue level estimates by food consumption estimates yields an estimate of human pesticide exposure. Commonly, the theoretical maximum residue contribution (TMRC) is calculated that represents the maximum "legal" exposure to pesticides. Calculation of the TMRC involves the assumptions that all pesticides legally allowed on a particular commodity will always be applied, that all residues are present at the tolerance levels, and that there are no post-harvest effects on residue levels. Often the TMRC is used as a sorting tool by the EPA in its preliminary assessment of dietary risks to pesticides.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS) 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1631480/
Abstract: The aim of this study was to analyze the relationships between caries incidence and each of seven caries-related factors in a group of 15- to 18-yr-olds as well as in single and combined subgroups representing favorable or less favorable fractions of six of the factors. Sixty-nine 18-yr-olds were interviewed about consumption of sweets and other sugar-containing products during the past 3 yr and examined for oral hygiene, salivary counts of mutants streptococci and lactobacilli, salivary flow rate and oral sugar clearance time at the ages of 15 and 18. Simple linear correlations and a stepwise multiple regression analysis were used to compare ranks and explanatory values. The highest correlations were obtained for intake of sweets and intake of other sugary products, with r values increasing from 0.25 and 0.16, respectively, in the total material to 0.70 and 0.67 in less favorable fractions of oral hygiene, salivary flow rate and other sugary products in the former case, sweets in the latter. The stepwise multiple regression analysis revealed that sweets and other sugary products contributed 12 percentage points to the total explanatory value, which was as low as 19%. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1631352/
Abstract: Aflatoxins remain as a threat to the health of livestock as well as humans by their continuing intermittent occurrence in both feeds and foods. The finding that aflatoxin-contaminated feeds, and eventually purified aflatoxins, were carcinogenic in rats and trout initiated a multitude of studies in search of the role of these toxins in human liver disease, especially cancer. Although aflatoxins have caused acute liver disease in humans, epidemiologic evidence of the involvement of aflatoxins in PLC has not been clarified. Earlier studies did not consider that the hepatitis B virus (HBV) may have contributed to the PLC in the selected populations. Although later studies that did include measurement of the HBV antigen in serum provided conflicting evidence for the role of aflatoxin in PLC in these populations, the latest and most comprehensive study found no association between aflatoxin exposure and PLC mortality. The technological advances and findings of the chemical, immunologic, and metabolic activities of aflatoxins such as binding to DNA and protein to form adducts, development of monoclonal antibodies, and mutational specificity of the genotoxic compounds will, it is hoped, help to clarify the role of aflatoxin as a risk factor, among many others, in the development of primary liver cancer in humans. Aflatoxicosis of animals is usually manifested by pathologic changes in the liver, but they have been found to be carcinogenic and teratogenic as well as causing impaired protein formation, coagulation, weight gains, and immunity. The importance of the carcinogenic effect in livestock is diminished because they are not fed contaminated diets for a sufficient time prior to marketing for slaughter. Animals are variably susceptible to aflatoxins, depending on such factors as age, species, breed, sex, nutrition, and certain stresses. Swine, cattle, and poultry are the domestic species of greatest economic concern in terms of aflatoxicosis. In all species, the evidence of disease is a general unthriftiness and reduction in weight gains, feed efficiency, immunity, and production. More conclusive evidence of aflatoxin involvement in disease includes acute to chronic liver disease with concomitant increases in specific liver enzymes in the serum. In cattle, milk production is affected, but of greater significance is that the aflatoxins in feeds can be rather efficiently converted to toxic metabolites in milk, with even small amounts being readily detectable. The poultry industry probably suffers greater economic loss than any of the livestock industries because of the greater susceptibility of their species to aflatoxins than other species.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS) 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1631479/
Abstract: The efficacy on bodyweight and the acceptability of a three month treatment with dexfenfluramine (Isomride), combined with a prescribed diet, were evaluated in 336 women followed by a gynecologist for overweight. These women were divided into three groups, those in the sexually active age group (80%) and perimenopausal and post-menopausal women (20%) and had the following characteristics: mean bodyweight 80.2 +/- 0.6 kg; excess bodyweight 35.0 +/- 0.5% of theoretical ideal weight, mean bodyweight index = 30.6 +/- 0.2 kg/m2. Simultaneously with the weight loss, a study of the change in gynecological symptoms was carried out at each consultation and for each group. Investigation of the bodyweight showed that 80% of the patient who followed the treatment for three months lost weight, the mean loss being 7.2 kg or 41.9% of the initial excess weight. Simultaneously with this loss of weight, there was an improvement in the gynecological symptoms in all three groups. These symptoms included those seen in the premenstrual phase (sexually active age group) and menopause-related symptoms in the perimenopausal and post menopausal groups. The acceptability and safety of Isomeride were also confirmed in this study. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1631686/
Abstract: In children with myelomeningocele fecal and urinary incontinence lowers self-esteem and decreases social interaction. The defects in the lumbosacral spine disturb the sensory and motor nerves supplying the skin and muscles of the perianal region, including the puborectalis muscle, and the external anal sphincter. The sensations in the region, as well as the motor functions of the striated muscles suffer, compromising the dynamics of continence and the normal process of stooling and leading to incontinence and constipation. Constipation has been treated by disimpaction of stools from the colon and rectum, administration of stool softeners, and a healthy diet containing adequate bulk-forming items. Incontinence has usually been managed by behavior modification of self-initiating stooling after meals and positive reinforcement of this process. This method has helped up to 75% of patients to become socially continent. Biofeedback training has been helpful in patients who have preservation of some sensorimotor functions in the perianal region and who understand and cooperate in the process of biofeedback training. The enema continence catheter has been used to empty the rectosigmoid every 48 hours; most children treated in this manner have achieved social continence. Electric stimulation of the pudendal nerves using a neuroprosthetic device has been used in some patients. The pudendal nerve is stimulated continuously to achieve continence; stimulation is discontinued only for stooling and/or urination. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1631508/
Abstract: Recently a technique to measure intact parathyroid hormone (PTH), i.e. the biologically active hormone, has been available. The aim of the present study was to apply this method to evaluate the parathyroid function in a material of recurrent renal stone formers (n = 324). Intact PTH was found to be inversely related to both urinary calcium (r = -0.15; p less than 0.01) and serum calcium (p less than 0.02) indicating that in the majority of the patients with hypercalciuria this was accounted for by intestinal hyperabsorption and not by high serum PTH. Hyperabsorption was also the likely explanation for the finding of a positive relationship between the urinary calcium and oxalate excretions (r = 0.22; p less than 0.001) in medication-free patients without intestinal disorders, i.e. without enteric hyperoxaluria. Altogether 25 patients (7%) had elevated serum PTH concentrations. They were followed up with fasting serum and urinary electrolytes and an oral calcium loading test (1 g of calcium) in order to evaluate the importance of renal and intestinal factors responsible for the elevated serum PTH concentrations. The investigation was carried out on a free diet and on low and high calcium intakes, respectively. The incidence of intestinal malfunction, which was sometimes present without clinical symptoms, was found to be approximately the same as that of impaired renal conservation of calcium. The findings in the patients with intestinal malfunction were a reduced intestinal absorption of calcium and an enhanced tubular reabsorption of calcium (TRCa), with greater reabsorption of calcium for higher PTH values. In patients with impaired renal conservation of calcium despite the raised PTH there was no correlation between PTH and TRCa. When PTH was suppressed during the oral calcium load the TRCa was found to be inappropriately low and the renal defect obvious. The intestinal calcium absorption was secondarily increased to compensate for the renal losses. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1631819/
Abstract: Human listeriosis is a rare disease. It may be foodborne. Listeric infection during pregnancy may give a fatal fetal outcome, caused by transplacental passage of organisms from the maternal gastrointestinal tract. We describe a case of perinatal listeriosis which resulted in preterm stillbirth. Perinatal listeriosis should be considered when flue-like symptoms are presented during pregnancy. Early diagnosis and treatment may improve the outcome. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1631532/
Abstract: To examine possible reduction in dietary cadmium (Cd) intake, 24-h duplicates of diet were collected twice in the same village in north-eastern Japan, once in 1976-1977 (71 samples) and then in 1989 (198 samples) and analyzed for Cd contents. The statistical analysis by sex and age decade showed that there has been a significant (P less than 0.01-0.05, depending on sex and age) reduction in Cd intake during this 12-year period. The intake by men at 30-59 years was 28.8 micrograms/day (as a geometric mean of 41 samples) in 1976-1977 and 20.8 micrograms/day in 1989, indicating some 28% reduction, whereas the value for women of the same age range was 24.9 micrograms/day in 1976-1977 and 15.7 micrograms/day in 1989, with a reduction by 37%. A similar reduction in Cd contents was observed in cooked rice samples collected in 1980 and 1990 in the vicinity of the study field. Probable reasons for the improvement are discussed. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1631995/
Abstract: Intermittent claudication is a symptom triggered from the musculature during walking. The pathogenesis of the pain is unknown. All patients with peripheral vascular disease must abstain from smoking, perform physical exercise and dietary advice is sometime needed. Reconstructive vascular surgery or percutaneous transluminal angioplasty (PTA) are indicated when the occupational pattern and, in some instances, the recreational activities, are threatened. The results of these treatments are good. For various reasons a number of patients, however, cannot be offered these treatments. These patients must be informed of the importance of physical exercise and discontinuation of smoking. Some of these patients can be offered supplementary medical treatment (e.g. pentoxifylline). 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1631967/
Abstract: Recent research has demonstrated that reduced insulin-stimulated glucose metabolism in skeletal muscle (insulin resistance) and hyperinsulinism are common features in widespread diseases such as essential hypertension, android obesity, non-insulin dependent diabetes mellitus, dyslipidemia (in the form of raised serum triglyceride and reduced serum high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol) and arteriosclerosis. Simultaneously, investigations in a comprehensive group of healthy middle-aged men have revealed insulin resistance in one fourth. On the basis of these observations, a working hypothesis is suggested which postulates that genetic abnormalities in one or more of the candidate genes in the modes of action of insulin occur in a great proportion of the population. These may result in insulin resistance (primary genetic insulin resistance). Primary insulin resistance may be potentiated by a series of circumstances such as ageing, high-fat diet, lack of physical activity, hormonal and metabolic abnormalities or drugs (secondary insulin resistance). As a consequence of the reduced effect of insulin on muscle tissue, compensatory hyperinsulinism develops. Depending on the remaining vulnerability of the individual the hyperinsulinism is presumed to result in development of one or more phenotypes. For example if the beta-cells of the pancreas are unable to secrete sufficient insulin to compensate the insulin resistance on account of genetic defects, glucose intolerance will develop. In a similar manner, hyperinsulinism in insulin-resistant individuals who are predisposed to essential hypertension is presumed to reveal genetic defects in the blood pressure regulating mechanisms and thus contribute to development of the disease.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS) 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1632087/
Abstract: The author presents an account of results of the magnesium loading test and its method, from a group of 50 patients with cardiovascular diseases. The magnesium loading test reveals shortage of bodily reserves of magnesium (mg) by calculating the percentage of Mg retention. In a group of examined subjects the author found a high percentage of Mg retention (on average 68%) which suggests an unequivocal deficiency of bodily Mg reserves in this group of patients. At the same time changes of serum concentrations and urinary excretion of other investigated minerals are discussed. As compared with other methods of assessment of Mg bodily reserves, the loading test is most suitable for clinical practice. In the discussion the author analyzes the assembled results and factors which lead to deficiency of bodily Mg reserves and deals with substitution treatment by Mg preparations. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1632089/
Abstract: A group of 61 diabetics (incl. 35 treated by diet alone and 26 who were treated also by oral antidiabetics) with associated osteomalacia were treated with vitamin D (dosage 42,000 to 85,000 i. u. per day) and calcium (470-700 mg/day). After six weeks of this treatment the serum calcium level rose on average by 0.15 mmol/l and the blood sugar level declined on average by 1.68 mmol/l. A linear negative correlation was proved between these two parameters. The fasting blood sugar level declined in 53 subjects (86.88%) and only in five patients (8.19%) the blood sugar level increased, in three subjects (4.91%) it did not change. Possible explanations of this phenomenon include the influence of an increased calcium concentration on insulin secretion and release from pancreatic beta-cells on the one hand and enhanced glucose utilization in the periphery on the other hand. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1632031/
Abstract: Stress reactions develop in different organs as a result of the effect of unfavourable factors which increase the differential threshold for men. These derangements mainly occur in the organs where we can observe an inadequacy between high level of metabolism in the cell and instability of energy supply. Under such conditions stress reactions in the cells have the following stages in succession: intensiveness of the lipolysis in mitochondria, accumulation in the cells of fatty acid metabolites, destruction of the membranous apparatus of the cells, increase in the presence of Ca++ in the cells. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1632124/
Abstract: Dynamics of biological community of the "resource--consumer" type considering age structure of consumer population is described by a system of differential equations with special derivatives. On the basis of such a model, a competition model for non-crossing populations with different individual development rates is elaborated. It is shown that only a population with development rates maximizing the Malthusian function (reaching zero value at the equilibrium state of the system) is able to survive under competition for food resources. Equilibrium density of the resources is provided being minimal. Thus maximum energy influx into the population is gained. Search algorithm of evolutionary values of puberty, age and maximal longevity of individuals belonging to the consumer population is proposed. Analytic dependence of maximal longevity on environmental factors and some other parameters are found. Aging is considered to be mechanism leading to death while individual approaches evolutionary optimal longevity. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1632197/
Abstract: The number of Salmonella enteritidis isolations started to rise in humans, eggs and egg products in 4 territories out of the examined 9 territories of Russia in 1986. The spread of S. enteritidis infections was connected with the consumption of hen's eggs as it was demonstrated by the analysis of the local outbreaks. Phage type of 1142 S. enteritidis strains isolated in Russia was determined using the Hungarian typing scheme. The strains were typable in 95.3% and 12 phage types were found. Phage type 1 was the most frequent (86.7%) among human strains and also among strains originated from hen and egg products. The examined 18226 human S. enteritidis strains isolated in Hungary between 1984 and 1989 belonged to 24 phage types and phage type 1 was predominant, the incidence of this type varying between 69.3% and 93.2%. The strains were sensitive to antibiotics, multiresistant strains were found in 1%. Plasmid content was examined of 138 strains; a 38 Md plasmid was carried by all of them and a 96 Md plasmid was harboured by 11 antibiotic-resistant strains. The tested strains produced enterobactin but no aerobactin. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1632473/
Abstract: This review presents a history of tumor necrosis factor, considers the biology of this pleiotropic mediator, and summarizes the evidence that implicates it as a mediator of cachexia. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1632423/
Abstract: The authors assessed the reproducibility and validity of an expanded 131-item semiquantitative food frequency questionnaire used in a prospective study among 51,529 men. The form was administered by mail twice to a sample of 127 participants at a one-year interval. During this interval, men completed two one-week diet records spaced approximately 6 months apart. Mean values for intake of most nutrients assessed by the two methods were similar. Intraclass correlation coefficients for nutrient intakes assessed by questionnaires one year apart ranged from 0.47 for vitamin E without supplements to 0.80 for vitamin C with supplements. Correlation coefficients between the energy-adjusted nutrient intakes measured by diet records and the second questionnaire (which asked about diet during the year encompassing the diet records) ranged from 0.28 for iron without supplements to 0.86 for vitamin C with supplements (mean r = 0.59). These correlations were higher after adjusting for week-to-week variation in diet record intakes (mean r = 0.65). These data indicate that the expanded semiquantitative food frequency questionnaire is reproducible and provides a useful measure of intake for many nutrients over a one-year period. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1632474/
Abstract: Diarrhea and malnutrition, alone or together, constitute major causes of morbidity and mortality among children throughout the tropical world. Data from northeast Brazil, taken with numerous other studies, clearly show that diarrhea is both a cause and an effect of malnutrition. Diarrheal illnesses impair weight as well as height gains, with the greatest effects being seen with recurrent illnesses, which reduce the critical catch-up growth that otherwise occurs after diarrheal illnesses or severe malnutrition. Malnutrition (whether assessed by impaired weight or height for age) leads to increased frequencies and durations of diarrheal illnesses, with a 37% increase in frequency and a 73% increase in duration accounting for a doubling of the diarrhea burden (days of diarrhea) in malnourished children. A multi-pronged approach focusing on those with prolonged diarrhea and severe malnutrition is suggested. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1632421/
Abstract: Use of vitamin and mineral supplements was assessed in a population-based case-control study of oral and pharyngeal cancer, conducted during 1984-1985 in four areas of the United States. There was no association with intake of multivitamin products, but users of supplements of individual vitamins, including vitamins A, B, C, and E, were at lower risk after controlling for the effects of tobacco, alcohol, and other risk factors for these cancers. After further adjustment for use of other supplements, vitamin E was the only supplement that remained associated with a significantly reduced cancer risk. The adjusted odds ratio of oral and pharyngeal cancer for "ever regularly used" vitamin E was 0.5 (95% confidence interval 0.4-0.6). To the authors' knowledge, this is the first epidemiologic study to show a reduced oral cancer risk with vitamin E use. Although it is not clear that the lower risk among consumers of vitamin E supplements is due to the vitamin per se, the findings are consistent with experimental evidence and should prompt further research on the role of vitamin E and other micronutrients as inhibitors of oral and pharyngeal cancer. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1632272/
Abstract: Dysphagia is more frequently observed in patients with neurologic diseases (stroke, bulbar or pseudo-bulbar syndrome, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, cranial trauma). Furthermore, the presence of this pathology is obviously more frequently noted in the light of the increase in the length of the human life span. It has become evident that alternative feeding procedures such as the nasogastric tube or gastrostomy may bring about complications and deprive patients of the oral phase of deglutition which plays a leading role in stimulating digestive functions. The Authors report a systematic research on the rehabilitation aspects of neurogenous dysphagia. All the patients studied underwent a neurological examination and oropharyngeal functional evaluation using echo-videorecording of the oral phase of deglutition and fluoro-videorecording of the pharyngeal phase. The data obtained allowed for the selection of five patients considered suitable for the rehabilitation program. One of them had a multi-infarct encephalopathy, two a spastic hemiplegia f.b.c., a fourth a cerebellar syndrome and the last a sequela of meningioma removal of the ponto-cerebellar angle with peripheral paralysis of the right VII, IX, X, XI cranial nerves. This last patient also underwent a crico-pharyngeal myotomy. Therapy consisted in making the patient sensitive to swallowing movements and in training them to assume a compensatory posture as well as functional rehabilitation of the organs involved in deglutition. The first datum emerging from the study is the lack of etiological homogeneity found in the cases treated with evident variability in different deglutition organ impairment, even though there was the common denominator of the dysphagia symptom. With regard to the results obtained, there was a complete resolution in one patient, while in the other four there was such an improvement as to allow the patients a safe autonomous oral assumption of food. The positive results obtained are not only linked to the recovery of damaged organs, but also to the development of compensatory strategies such as the choice of appropriate food consistency and the assumption of postures which protect the respiratory tract from aspiration and favor crico-pharyngeal relaxation. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1632704/
Abstract: Obesity is associated with absolute and relative expansion of the extracellular water compartment (ECW). The effects of substantial and prolonged weight reduction on body water distribution are unknown, however. The authors studied total body water (TBW) by tritiated water dilution, ECW by 35SO4 dilution, exchangeable sodium (Na(e)) by 24Na, and total body potassium (TBK) by 40K whole-body counting in 25 severely obese women (body mass index [BMI] = 48 +/- 7 kg.m-2, mean +/- standard deviation) aged 36 +/- 8 years before and at intervals after gastric restrictive (GR; n = 12) and malabsorptive (MA; n = 13) operations for obesity. Results are compared with a control group of 26 healthy normal-weight women (BMI = 21 +/- 2). Before operation, the obese patients had absolute elevations of all water compartments compared with controls, with significantly higher ratios of Na(e) to TBK (1.17 +/- 0.13 versus 0.91 +/- 0.10; p less than 0.05) and ECW to intracellular water (ICW) (E/I = 0.82 +/- 0.17 versus 0.63 +/- 0.06; p less than 0.05). After weight loss of 52 +/- 20 kg in MA and 47 +/- 19 kg in GR patients (nonsignificant between groups) to a stable level 22 +/- 8 months after operation, there were statistically significant reductions in TBW, ICW, TBK, and Na(e) in both groups, but a significant reduction in ECW only after GR. Adjusting for preoperative weight, duration of follow-up, and rate of weight loss, E/I was greater after MA than GR (1.09 +/- 0.25 versus 0.82 +/- 0.14; p less than 0.05). The elevated preoperative E/I ratio did not normalize with weight loss after surgery, and the response was related to the type of operation. The finding remains to be explained although the increased E/I after MA may reflect mild protein-calorie malnutrition not detectable in the blood. The persistence of elevated E/I with significant weight loss after GR might imply an intrinsic or irreversible imbalance of fluid distribution in obese patients. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1632472/
Abstract: Although long associated with infectious diseases, malnutrition is recognized as a major effect of specific infections, especially those of the gastrointestinal tract. Synergistic exacerbation of infections and nutritional deficiency commonly begin with weaning, where the impact of repeated infections and possible monocyte mediator release may have an even greater effect on malnutrition of young children than that of deficient diets in many areas. Reviewed here are the detailed host alterations seen with specific enteric infections that lead to malnutrition. These include mucosal dysfunction, systemic metabolic responses, impaired intake, digestion and absorption, nutrient losses, altered immune responses, and ultimately, impaired growth, development, and nutrition. The tremendous health impact of diarrhea on both morbidity and mortality in many developing areas must be recognized and controlled along with correction of food shortages in order to improve the nutrition, growth, and survival of impoverished children. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1632662/
Abstract: Lipid composition plays an important part in the structural and metabolic functions of cell membranes. In particular the production of inflammatory mediators such as prostaglandins and leukotrienes is dependent on polyunsaturated fatty acid precursors. Neutrophil leucocytes participate in inflammatory processes by their phagocytic and killing activities which can be monitored by measuring the photon emission (chemiluminescence). Chemiluminescence was measured in a luminol dependent system after stimulation by either particulate (zymosan) or soluble (phorbol myristate acetate) stimulus in a group of 10 patients with rheumatoid arthritis before and 21 and 45 days after treatment with a diet supplemented with eicosapentaenoic and docosahexaenoic acids. Ten patients with rheumatoid arthritis continuing their usual diet were used as control subjects. A progressive reduction of chemiluminescence stimulated by zymosan and phorbol myristate acetate was found in the patients treated with fish oil supplementation. This result correlated well with the reduction in erythrocyte sedimentation rate and an improvement of clinical parameters. The effects of fish oil derived lipids on neutrophil chemiluminescence are probably due to a change of the lipid composition of the cell membrane which is dependent on the esterification of eicosapentaenoic acid and docosahexaenoic acid in cellular membrane phospholipids. The modification of membrane lipid composition seems to interact in a non-specific way with the metabolic activation of neutrophils during phagocytosis. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1632476/
Abstract: Parasitic infections and malnutrition coexist in many tropical and subtropical areas. Studies of Leishmania donovani and of experimentally infected Syrian hamsters have provided important insights into the complex interrelationships between malnutrition and this parasitic disease. Malnutrition, which adversely affects cell-mediated immunity, is associated with the development of visceral leishmaniasis (kala-azar) in children living in endemic areas. In turn, L. donovani can cause wasting as well as hepatosplenomegaly, fever, and anemia. Syrian hamsters infected with L. donovani develop a disease that is comparable to that of humans with kala-azar. Weight loss in infected hamsters is associated with splenic macrophage secretion of potentially catabolic cytokines as measured by the D10.G4.1 assay for interleukin-1 and the L929 cytotoxicity assay for tumor necrosis factor/cachectin. Although decreased food intake contributes to wasting in infected hamsters, studies of skeletal muscle function indicate that it is not the sole factor. Leishmania donovani-infected hamsters have also been used to study drugs with the potential to prevent or reverse cachexia. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1642737/
Abstract: This presentation addressed the researches concerning the effects of the low intensity training on health promotion done in our laboratory. Supervised physical training performed at 50% VO2max or lactate threshold for 60 minutes, 3 or 5 times a week for 30 sessions could induce the improvement in VO2max, lipid profiles, and augment in cardio-pulmonary baroreflex. This training was also applied for patients in ischemic heart disease, hypertension, and obesity. These patients could improve their aerobic work capacity. Hypertensive patients could reduce their blood pressure in association with modulating in humoral factors without changes in body weight and diet. The obese patients succeeded in significant body reduction with mild food reduction. We also found the existence of break-point of double product (BPDP) during graded exercise test corresponding to lactate threshold. BPDP will be able to use for estimating lactate threshold. This low intensity training, which is easier and safer, can be recommended to the wide-variety of persons including older person to promote health. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1642785/
Abstract: A total of 65 children with mild iron deficiency anemia (IDA) were divided into 5 groups, and received 0, 25, 50, 100 and 150 mg/day of vitamin C (VC) respectively every day for 8 weeks. Hemoglobin, serum ferritin, free erythrocyte and hematocrit were determined every week. At a daily average intake of about 30 mg of VC and 7.5 mg of Fe, the results of the study indicate that: (1) VC supplement alone could effectively control children's IDA, and a dose-dependent relationship was observed. (2) 50 mg/day of VC is the most efficient dosage and 6 weeks is the shortest time for an effective therapy. (3) With a diet predominantly comprised of plant foods, it is suggested that appropriate dose of VC should be supplemented for the children during winter and spring in northeastern areas of China. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1642497/
Abstract: The authors present a method to separate and preserve stomach contents for forensic purpose. Analysis by "sieve tower" technique is simple and quickly done during autopsy. Solid phases of stomach content are arranged size up and can be stored for subsequent examinations. With the fluid phase drug analysis or microscopic analysis to confirm identy of the foodstuffs may be done. By adding alcohol (70%) enzymatic digestion and bacterial degradation of the stomach content are stopped. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1642692/
Abstract: Tissue factor (TF) which initiates clotting process can be expressed by stimulated endothelial cells (EC). TF is an apolipoprotein requiring an association with phospholipids (PL) in order to become active. Also PL constitute an important storage pool of polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs) in EC which can be modulated by diet or cell medium supplementation. In order to test the effect of such manipulation upon TF activity, we have pre-enriched human EC cultures with different fatty acids of nutritional interest. TF was evaluated after 4 h of thrombin stimulation by using a chromogenic method. Without additional stimulating agents, these acids have no effect on the basal level of TF. Eicosapentaenoic and docosapentaenoic acids appeared to be ineffective at the stimulated TF level. Only adrenic acid (22:4(n-6)) has been found to significantly enhance TF activity of thrombin-stimulated endothelial cells. Other TF inducers were also tested after 22:4(n-6) enrichment. An increase tendency of TF expression was found only with tumor necrosis factor, whereas interleukin-1 beta, lipopolysaccharide and especially phorbol myristate acetate stimulations were not significantly modified. The priming effect of adrenic acid on thrombin stimulated TF expression might involve alterations of signal transduction pathways rather than modifications of apolipoprotein III environment. Adrenic acid, which is a prostacyclin inhibitor, appears to be potential prothrombotic agent. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1642784/
Abstract: It is the first report of an outbreak of 114 food-poisoning cases due to consumption of Penicillium cyclopium contaminated dried persimmon. Gastralgia, diarrhea, dizziness and general malaise are chief symptoms of the poisoning, with incubation period of 2-6 hrs generally and a short disease period (generally recovered within 2-3 days). No enteropathogenic organism, pathogenic coccus and Campylobacter jejuni were detected. Surface fungi counts were 49,000/g, 21.3 times of that discovered in the marketed dried persimmon. Penicillium cyclopium Westling was the dominant fungus isolated. Mouse toxicity tests were carried out with the crude extracts of the fungus culture. Diarrhea, tremor and convulsion were observed before death. During autopsy, necrosis and hemorrhagic foci were observed in G.I. tract after intra-peritoneal injection and intubation. In histo-pathological examination, different degree of necrosis and scaling of gastro-intestinal mucous membrane, lymphocyte infiltration, and necrosis of liver cells and renal tubule epithelial cells could be seen. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1642790/
Abstract: Moldy sugarcane poisoning, an acute fatal food poisoning of unknown etiology, has occurred in 13 provinces in China. The epidemiological characteristics and clinical features were described. Evidence from laboratory studies indicates that 3-nitropropionic acid produced by the fungus Arthrinium Spp. is the etiological factor of this food poisoning. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1642474/
Abstract: Routine screening for organic acids revealed increased and isolated urinary excretion of L-2-hydroxyglutaric acid in 8 mentally retarded patients from five unrelated families, including three pairs of siblings. L-2-Hydroxyglutaric acid concentration was also found to be increased in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) and to a lesser extent in plasma. The only other biochemical abnormality was an increased concentration of lysine, both in plasma and in CSF. No organic acid abnormality was found on screening of asymptomatic family members. Patients were of either sex, and became symptomatic during childhood, with moderate to severe mental deficiency in all and definite cerebellar dysfunction in 7. Magnetic resonance imaging revealed an identical abnormal pattern with subcortical leukoencephalopathy, cerebellar atrophy, and signal changes in the putamina and dentate nuclei, in all patients. No specific biochemical function or catabolic pathway involving L-2-hydroxyglutaric acid is known in mammals, including humans. Preliminary loading and dietary studies failed to reveal the origin of the compound. The elevated CSF/plasma ratio suggests that it is in part generated within the central nervous system. This report describes a novel inherited neurometabolic disease, probably autosomal recessive, with distinct clinical, biochemical, and neuroimaging features. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1643168/
Abstract: Vacuole response in HEp-2 cells was induced with culture supernatants of Bacillus cereus strains isolated from outbreaks of vomiting- and diarrheal-type food poisoning grown in rice flour and laboratory media. High vacuole response was obtained with culture supernatants of B. cereus strains isolated from vomiting-type food poisoning grown in cooked rice suspension or on a cooked rice plate, whereas no response was obtained with those of the same strains grown in brain heart infusion and trypto-soya broth media. The vacuole activity appeared only after spore formation of B. cereus. The activity was stable to proteolytic enzymes, heating, and exposing to pH 2.0 and 11.0. Of 124 strains isolated from B. cereus food poisoning that were tested, the vacuole activity was observed by 68 of 110 (61.8%) of the strains isolated from the vomiting-type food poisoning but not by all strains (14 strains) from diarrheal-type ones. Moreover, the vacuole response in the HEp-2 cells was found to be induced by 56 of 76 (73.7%) of the serotype H-1 strains isolated from vomiting-type food poisoning. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1643046/
Abstract: The digestion of dietary triglycerides occurs in the duodenum through the action of triglyceride lipase, a pancreatic exocrine protein. The activity of pancreatic lipase is inhibited by the bile salts normally found in the gut lumen. Another pancreatic exocrine protein, colipase, restores the lipolytic activity of triglyceride lipase. The synthesis and secretion of both triglyceride lipase and colipase is increased by dietary fats and secretin. An increase in mRNA accompanies the increased activity, suggesting that the genes for triglyceride lipase and colipase contain nucleotide elements responsive to dietary fats or secretin or both. To study the regulation of colipase expression, we have first isolated the gene for human colipase from a cosmid library with a cDNA probe. The gene was localized to chromosome 6 and is organized into three exons contained in a single 3.3-kb BamHI fragment. The 5'-flanking region of the gene contains a TATA box, a GC box, and a 28-bp region with homology to the rat pancreatic-specific enhancer. This region directs the tissue-specific expression of the chloramphenicol acetyltransferase gene in a transfected rat pancreatic acinar cell line, AR42-J. The same construct is inactive in HEPG2, C2C12, and COS-1 cells. These results demonstrate that the isolated gene for human colipase contains tissue-specific promoter activity in the 5'-flanking DNA. The 28-bp region specifically binds to a factor in nuclear extracts. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1643195/
Abstract: Two groups of three healthy adult male volunteers without histories of sedative or other drug abuse participated in 15-day residential studies. Each day consisted of a private work period (10 AM to 4:30 PM), during which subjects participated in traditional laboratory performance tasks, and a social period (5 to 11:30 PM), during which subjects had access to recreational activities available under social or private conditions. Tobacco cigarettes and food were available throughout each day (9 AM to 12 PM). Diazepam (5 or 10 mg/70 kg) or placebo was administered orally twice daily in alternating three-consecutive-day intervals. Dosing order varied between groups. Diazepam had no effect on the total amount of time subjects spent in social conditions; however, the low dose increased verbal interaction, while the high dose decreased verbal interaction. Both doses disrupted performance on a second-order repeated-acquisition task but produced no effects on the other performance measures. Five of six subjects increased caloric intake following at least one dose, with the largest increases observed in subjects with the lowest baseline intake. Increases in subject reports of dose "Potency" and "Sedated" were also observed following the high dose. Diazepam doses routinely used in clinical settings influenced a variety of behaviors that are observed in the natural ecology, but not performance on accepted laboratory tasks. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1642776/
Abstract: Metabolic processes and the ways they may be treated were investigated in severely burned patients receiving prolonged high calorie evenly distributed tube feedings. It was shown that in critically ill patients the absorption of nutrients in the upper regions of the intestine was slightly impaired but the ability to absorb was preserved, which made it possible to provide prolonged evenly distributed tube feeding. For these purposes we used the nutrient mixture 'Combustal'. Restoration of nitrogen balance could be reached within about 10 days after starting tube feeding. However, the creatine excretion remained high, a manifestation of increased dystrophy of muscle tissue. Pseudocholinesterase activity in serum was also decreased, suggesting subnormal biosynthetic processes. To provide the full correction to normal of the metabolic processes the tube feeding with 'Combustal' should be given for at least a month. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1643304/
Abstract: A cross-sectional survey of 701 Indian children aged 1-15 in five northern Canadian communities showed that 82% had a documented history of BCG vaccination while only 78% had a visible scar. The prevalence of 5 mm or more induration on Mantoux testing varied from 6 to 26%. Multiple logistic regression indicated that community, age, past use of isoniazid and time since the last Mantoux test were positive predictors of sensitivity. The presence of a BCG scar and the number of past vaccinations were not significantly associated but the elapsed time since the last BCG was negatively associated with a positive reaction. Overcrowding, nutritional status and past history of household and community contact with an active case of tuberculosis were also investigated but their independent effect could not be demonstrated. Despite the presence of mass BCG vaccination in this population, tuberculin testing is still a useful tool in assessing the risk of infection. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1643325/
Abstract: On the occasion of a local epidemic of infectious enteritis in a Community centre, the Public Health Office had an opportunity to develop a procedure to deal with such outbreaks. Models for the tasks of Public Health Offices are suggested. These consist of investigation, control measures, documentation of the epidemic and assessment of the chosen procedures. Typical problems include pressure of time due to the large number of cases, the dilemma between the need to inform the population vs. professional secrecy, and the dual role of the Public Health Office in providing assistance in both medical consultation and epidemic control measures. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1643349/
Abstract: Nutrition is a very important factor in maintenance of human health. Defects in nutrition may become the main "killer" and "pathogen" in current human society. Malnutrition can modify host defenses, influence the disease patterns and outcomes. The paper introduces the notion "trophologic status" as an indicator of human health. The definition is presented. Assessment of the trophologic status can be conducted by various methods useful for different medical institutions in early diagnosis of trophologic insufficiency in patients. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1643483/
Abstract: The number of potential candidates for small bowel transplantation in the UK is unknown. Potential recipients are those with irreversible small intestinal failure, including those treated with permanent parenteral nutrition. This study of one of the largest groups of patients receiving such nutrition identified ten of 25 adult patients as possible recipients. The remaining 15 were considered unsuitable, mainly because of multiple previous abdominal operations or abscesses. Extrapolation of these data to national figures on the incidence of irreversible small intestinal failure suggests that each year up to 20 new adult patients in the UK might benefit from small bowel transplantation. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1643562/
Abstract: This article addresses the minimum data base needed to assist the clinician's diagnostic approach to neurologic diseases. The collection, storage, and processing of cerebrospinal fluid samples are discussed. Additional diagnostic tests are described under selected specific etiologies. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1643714/
Abstract: Five free-living women (ages 23-38 years) who consumed a self-selected diet and five women (ages 23-44 years) residing in a metabolic unit who were fed constant diet were assessed for variation in vitamin and general chemistry indices. Blood was drawn from these women once a month for five months, once a week for five weeks, and once a day for five days to assess analytical and biological variability of the indices. Analytical variability was determined by concurrently analyzing control samples prepared from plasma and serum pools. All samples were analyzed in duplicate. Of the measured indices, vitamins and lipids seemed to be the most variable. Diet had a significant effect only on ascorbic acid. We were unable to show any seasonal change for these analytes. Estimations of analytical variability, along with estimates of biological variability, and knowledge of dietary practices are essential when interpreting differences in analytes. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1643445/
Abstract: Sera with IgE antibodies against grass pollen often contain IgE against vegetable foods. We investigated the role of the ubiquitous protein profilin in this cross-reactivity. Profilin was purified from Lolium perenne grass pollen by means of affinity purification with Sepharose-coupled poly(L-proline). This solid phase was also used as capturing agent for profilin from pollen and food extracts for application in a radioallergosorbent test. It was shown that profilin is an allergen in grass pollen and in a wide range of vegetable foods, like potato and celery. Within a grass-pollen-sensitive population, patients with IgE to vegetable foods have a high incidence of antibodies against profilin. IgE antibodies against grass pollen profilin were shown to be cross-reactive with respect to vegetable foods. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1643468/
Abstract: Malignant disease is often associated with weight loss and malnutrition. Nutritional support is frequently provided to patients with cancer in an attempt to improve nutritional status and reverse weight loss, with the aim of reducing morbidity and mortality rates. This review evaluates the effect of supplemental nutrition on morbidity and mortality in patients with malignancy undergoing treatment with surgery, chemotherapy or radiotherapy. It also assesses the effect nutritional supplementation has on host defence mechanisms and how nutrients affect tumour cell growth. The evidence suggests that perioperative nutritional support, if given for at least 10 days, reduces morbidity and mortality in patients with biochemical evidence of severe malnutrition, manifest as a low serum albumin concentration and excessive weight loss. In contrast, there is no evidence that parenteral nutritional support benefits patients undergoing chemotherapy or radiotherapy, in terms of either an increased tumour response rate or prolongation of survival. Current research on malignant disease is highlighting the role of specific nutrients (amino acids, essential fatty acids and polyribonucleotides) as key regulators of both anticancer host defence mechanisms and the control of nitrogen metabolism and tumour growth. Arginine, essential fatty acids and ribonucleotides have all been demonstrated to stimulate antitumour host defence mechanisms and some also modulate tumour cell metabolism. Dietary manipulation offers exciting possibilities for the innovative management of malignant disease. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1643742/
Abstract: The U.S. Congress determined quackery to be the most harmful consumer fraud against elderly people. Americans waste $27 billion annually on questionable health care, exceeding the amount spent on biomedical research. Quackery is characterized by the promotion of false and unproven health schemes for profit and does not necessarily involve imposture, fraud, or greed. The real issues in the war against quackery are the principles, including scientific rationale, encoded into consumer protection laws, primarily the U.S. Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act. More such laws are badly needed. Regulators are failing the public by enforcing laws inadequately, applying double standards, and accrediting pseudomedicine. Non-scientific health care (e.g., acupuncture, ayurvedic medicine, chiropractic, homeopathy, naturopathy) is licensed by individual states. Practitioners use unscientific practices and deception on a public who, lacking complex health-care knowledge, must rely upon the trustworthiness of providers. Quackery not only harms people, it undermines the scientific enterprise and should be actively opposed by every scientist. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1643756/
Abstract: Following a foodborne outbreak of Salmonella dysentery in a group of 79 women and 4 men, 6 individuals were found to have reactive arthritis (ReA). None of the affected individuals had the classical genetic marker HLA B27 although 2 of the 6 had CREG antigens. IgA antibodies to the lipopolysaccharide of the causative organism, Salmonella heidelberg, were found to be elevated in those patients with active ReA compared to those with inactive ReA or those who had dysentery but did not develop ReA. The lymphocyte proliferative response to both PHA and the whole S. heidelberg organism was impaired in the patients with ReA (active or inactive) compared with the non-ReA patient controls. In this predominantly female outbreak of Salmonellosis, the development of ReA lacked an association with HLA class I antigens commonly recognized. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1643806/
Abstract: Thirty-one subjects with impaired glucose tolerance were randomly allocated to a group receiving advice to improve their diet and physical activity levels over 6 months (n = 23) or to a control group (n = 8). At 6 months, 18 of the 23 subjects receiving 'healthy living' advice were re-examined (five subjects had withdrawn). Fourteen of the 18 subjects showed an alteration in diet or an increase in exercise. The 18 subjects re-evaluated showed a reduction in systolic blood pressure (118 +/- 15 vs 124 +/- 15 mmHg, p less than 0.05) and decrease in total plasma cholesterol (4.5 +/- 1 vs 5.2 +/- 1 mmol l-1, p less than 0.01) and LDL-cholesterol levels (2.8 +/- 0.9 vs 3.2 +/- 0.9 mmol l-1, p less than 0.05). Plasma glucose levels were unchanged. One subject withdrew from the control group. At 6 months, the seven control subjects examined showed no significant change in metabolic parameters, with little measurable change in diet or exercise. At 2 years, 17 of the 23 'healthy living' subjects were reassessed. Nine of the subjects had continued to exercise or maintained a decreased weight compared to baseline. Fasting plasma glucose levels had increased (6.0 +/- 1.2 vs 5.5 +/- 0.6 mmol l-1, p less than 0.05), with the only continued improvement being a reduced LDL level (2.8 +/- 0.7 vs 3.1 +/- 0.9 mmol l-1, p less than 0.05). At 2 years, a similar proportion of the control group were taking regular exercise compared with the 'healthy living' group.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS) 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1643809/
Abstract: Bahrain has faced a rapid transition in its socio-economic status, which resulted in great changes both in life-style and in patterns of health and disease. There has been a marked decline in infectious diseases and an increase in chronic diseases. Diabetes mellitus has become one of the most common public health problems in the country. In 1988 it was estimated that 3.4% of total deaths in Bahrain were due to diabetes. A community-based study among mothers aged 18 to 48 years showed that 8.5% of them had diabetes. The percentage was found to be higher among elderly Bahrainis (12.9%). Obesity, lack of physical activity, alteration in food habits, and change in social conditions have all played a vital role in the changing prevalence of diabetes in this country. The current programmes to manage and control diabetes are limited and ineffective. Thus measures to treat diabetes should be given a high priority in the national health policy. Training of physicians in the management of diabetes, public education, epidemiological surveys, and nutritional evaluation of local foods are among the most important measures needed to control diabetes in Bahrain. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1643998/
Abstract: Pathophysiologic mechanisms responsible for severe chronic constipation are poorly understood. In particular, most of the published studies have lumped together patients having different subtypes of constipation, with different and often conflicting results. We studied six patients complaining of severe idiopathic constipation and displaying homogeneous clinical and pathophysiologic features (i.e., patients with slow-transit type constipation) to evaluate their myoelectric spiking responses to food ingestion. Ten healthy subjects acted as controls. The constipated patients failed to show the increase in myoelectric spiking activity that was seen in controls immediately following the meals, suggesting the possibility of a neurogenic defect in this condition. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1643946/
Abstract: This study compared carbon dioxide production (VCO2) from isocaloric nutritional regimens with varying concentration of carbohydrates with VCO2 from low and high caloric nutritional regimens with constant concentrations of carbohydrates (CHO) in 20 stable mechanically ventilated patients. Ten patients (group A) received total parental nutrition in the form of three isocaloric nutritional regimens; 40 percent CHO/40 percent fat/20 percent protein, 60 percent CHO/20 percent fat/20 percent protein, and 75 percent CHO/5 percent fat/20 percent protein. The VCO2 did not change with increasing CHO proportion; 205 +/- 35 ml/min, 203 +/- 25 ml/min, and 211 +/- 35 ml/min, respectively. Ten additional patients (group B) received three nutritional regimens at 1.0, 1.5, and 2.0 times the estimated resting expenditure with a 60 percent CHO/20 percent fat/20 percent protein proportion. The VCO2 increased with increasing total calories, 181 +/- 23 ml/min, 211 +/- 38 ml/min, and 244 +/- 40 ml/min (p less than 0.05). High caloric feeding increases VCO2 in contrast to high percentage carbohydrate formulation. Thus, moderate caloric intake appears to be more important in avoiding nutritionally related increases in VCO2 in stable mechanically ventilated patients. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1644053/
Abstract: Pregnant women with epilepsy are at increased risk of seizures and complications. An increase in seizure frequency is seen in 25-30% of pregnant women with epilepsy; the offspring of mothers who experienced seizures during pregnancy are at a 2.5 times higher risk for seizures later in life. One of the main reasons for the increase in seizures during pregnancy is a decline in plasma concentrations of antiepileptic drug (AED) that occurs as pregnancy progresses, largely as a result of marked alterations in plasma protein binding. It is well known that epilepsy represents a risk for a variety of adverse pregnancy outcomes or malformations, especially in polytherapy. The adverse outcomes range from dysmorphic features to hemorrhagic disorders resulting from a deficiency of vitamin K-dependent clotting factors or to spina bifida. Folic acid supplements appear to reduce the risk of spina bifida. A strong genetic link seems to exist for many of the malformations that occur, and more research is required in this field. In the meantime, there are interventions that clinicians can already make to reduce the risk of adverse outcomes, such as seizure control without toxicity, monotherapy, and preconceptual use of vitamins with folate. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1643867/
Abstract: Data on the prevalence and characteristics of binge eating in a series of 64 obese women participating in a controlled weight-reduction program are presented. Twenty-two (34.4%) reported recurrent binge eating episodes defined as overeating plus loss of control as assessed by patients' self-report and confirmed by a clinical interview. Six of those indicated that they engaged in either self-induced vomiting or laxative use to control their weight, but only two met full criteria for current bulimia nervosa according to DSM-III-R. A detailed description of the binge eating behavior revealed similarities to the eating pattern described in patients with bulimia nervosa: obese binge eaters tended to overeat in the evening, when they were alone and at home. Compared with their non-binge eating counterparts, binge eaters were significantly younger when they presented for treatment. The prevalence of childhood obesity was higher, and they were significantly younger when they first started on a diet than the non-binge eaters. Binge eaters reported more psychological problems such as body image distortion, and there was a slight tendency for binge eaters to exhibit more depressive symptomatology at baseline. No association between binge eating and weight at baseline, or weight loss during therapy or at follow-up could be found. Fluvoxamine (100 mg) did not seem to be of specific benefit in this subgroup of the obese with regard to weight loss. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1662843/
Abstract: In a 26-year-old patient there have been benign enlargements of the lymphatic nodes and a splenomegaly since the end of the adolescence. In the 21st year of age the diagnosis of a Tangier disease was made. Allogenic HDL-rich serum fraction (COHN IV/1-fraction, prepared according to the modified method 6) infused under therapeutic aspect led to a prolonged increase of the serum total cholesterol and of the thrombocytes. The results pled for an activation of the reverse cholesterol transport. Excessively high malonic dialdehyde concentrations in the serum were relating to a "free radical"-associated metabolic defect, which was caused by the hypocholesterolaemia, the reduced transport capacity of vitamin E in the plasma and the nutrition poor in selenium and cholesterol, respectively. Under a nutritive antioxidant supplementation with sodium selenite and D-alpha-tocopherol a slight increase of the total cholesterol, of the thrombocytes as well as a normalization of the MDA values could be reached. The chronic oxidative stress appeared in the patient in a distinct lipofuscinosis of the skin and formations of naevus-cell naevi as an expression of massive denaturations of protein-lipids. In the Tangier disease we must reckon with an increased mutagenic effect of free radicals with an additional DNS repair capacity as well as an increased sensitivity to radical-generating cancerogenic xenobiotics.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS) 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1663237/
Abstract: The case is considered of a young asthmatic girl with a number of food allergies. After therapy, her pulmonary condition improved and the number of food allergies also decreased. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1662896/
Abstract: Temafloxacin is a new antibacterial agent of the fluoroquinolone group. In comparison with ciprofloxacin, the current leading quinolone, temafloxacin shows higher and longer lasting plasma concentrations after equivalent doses due to an almost complete gastrointestinal absorption and a lower total clearance. Temafloxacin absorption is little influenced by food intake. Concomitant administration of antacids should be avoided; a time interval of at least 2 hours should elapse between intake of either quinolone and an antacid. Both quinolones are excreted mainly by the kidney. They differ in tubular secretion, which is high for ciprofloxacin and low for temafloxacin. The overall nonrenal elimination is similar for both compounds. Ciprofloxacin has a slightly higher extent of metabolism, while temafloxacin probably has a higher transintestinal elimination. The biliary excretion of both compounds is in the same range. The longer half-life of temafloxacin enables a once-daily dose regimen, whereas the usual recommended dosage of ciprofloxacin is twice daily. For both quinolones the apparent volumes of distribution per body weight are significantly above unity, indicating good tissue penetration with intracellular uptake. The concentrations in the extracellular fluids are directly related to the corresponding plasma concentrations. The penetration of temafloxacin into the body fluids investigated--tears, nasal secretion, saliva, sweat, prostatic and seminal fluid--in general exceeds that of ciprofloxacin (with the exception of seminal fluid). Unlike ciprofloxacin, there is no drug interaction with methylxanthines. Comparative clinical studies reflecting the complex interrelating factors of host and pathogens are needed to demonstrate the significance of the pharmacokinetic differences between temafloxacin and ciprofloxacin. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1662661/
Abstract: The neuropsychiatric abnormalities which accompany cirrhosis of the liver vary widely from subclinical impairment of psychometric performance to overt episodic or persistent changes in cerebral function. The pathogenesis of the syndrome is unknown although important rles are ascribed to circulating gut-derived toxins of nitrogenous origin and to changes in central neurotransmission, particularly of the dopaminergic and GABA-ergic systems. Treatment is, therefore, based on mechanisms to reduce the production and absorption of gut-derived toxins such as decreasing and modifying dietary protein intake, altering the intestinal bacterial flora and bowel cleansing, and on mechanisms designed to modify central neurotransmitter balance either directly by use of dopaminergic agents or benzodiazepine antagonists or indirectly by use of amino-acid mixtures. Some treatment measures, such as use of non-absorbable disaccharides and vegetable protein diets, are known to be efficacious, and are the mainstays of management for all forms of the syndrome. Others are used in more specific circumstances, for example the antibiotic neomycin is effective during acute exacerbations of the syndrome, and the dopamine agonist bromocriptine provides benefit when symptoms are persistent and intractable. Certain treatments such as branched-chain amino acids and the benzodiazepine antagonist, flumazenil, are at present, of unproven value. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1663123/
Abstract: In a previous study, birth weight projections obtained with Rossavik growth models were systematically greater than actual birth weights in triplets but not in singletons. To investigate the cause of this overestimation, average mean percent deviations for head circumference (HC), abdominal circumference (AC), thigh circumference (ThC), and weight (WT) at different times in the third trimester were studied in 13 normal triplet and 20 normal singleton fetuses using individual growth curve standards. Average mean percent deviation values for HC in both singletons and triplets were close to zero throughout the third trimester. Average mean percent deviation values for AC in both singletons and triplets were similar, and remained relatively constant. Average mean percent deviation values for ThC in triplets decreased toward the end of the third trimester, but those for singletons increased. Average mean percent deviation values for estimated weight did not change during the third trimester in singletons whereas those in triplets decreased. The difference in average mean percent deviation values for estimated weight between singletons and triplets in the 32- to 36-week interval was statistically significant. There were no significant differences between actual and predicted measurements for HC in both singletons and triplets at birth. However, actual birth measurements were systematically less than predicted birth measurements for AC and ThC in singletons, and for AC, ThC, and WT for triplets. These systematic differences were significantly larger in triplets for ThC and WT. Nutrition Score values, direct measures of subcutaneous tissue, were significantly lower in triplets compared to singletons.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS) 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1662943/
Abstract: We report a case of herpes simplex hepatitis in a child with edematous malnutrition. Electron microscopy showed virus in parenchymal cells, with pulmonary embolization of necrotic, infected hepatic cell fragments. Systemic dissemination of herpes simplex may be related both to the profound immunoincompetence associated with kwashiorkor and to a reduction in the circulating and fixed polyanions that normally inhibit viral attachment to cells. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1662932/
Abstract: Total cellular DNA from 28 strains of Listeria monocytogenes isolated from food implicated in food-borne illness and from patients with listeriosis was digested with the restriction endonucleases HindIII, HaeIII, and EcoRI. Following agarose gel electrophoresis, the fragments were subjected to Southern blot hybridization with a digoxigenin-labeled cDNA probe transcribed from Escherichia coli 16S and 23S rRNA. The patterns of bands from genomic (DNA fingerprints) and rDNA fingerprints (ribotypes) were used for classifying L. monocytogenes strains, and the resulting subtypes were compared with serotyping and multilocus enzyme electrophoresis classification schemes. A total of 15 distinct and identical groups were obtained when genomic DNA was digested with either HindIII or HaeIII. The most discriminating enzyme for ribotyping of strains was EcoRI, which divided the 28 strains of L. monocytogenes into 6 ribotype groups. DNA fingerprinting and ribotyping differentiated L. monocytogenes from other Listeria spp., including L. ivanovii, L. welshimeri, and L. innocua as well as the lactic acid bacteria Lactococcus lactis subsp. lactis and subsp. cremoris. L. monocytogenes strains isolated from four independent food-borne illness incidents were analyzed by all typing methods. Patient and product isolates were not distinguishable by serotyping, ribotyping, or multilocus enzyme electrophoresis. DNA fingerprinting was the only method capable of differentiating these strains, or conversely, of proving relatedness of patient-product pairs of isolates. This method was a relatively simple, sensitive, reproducible, and highly discriminating method for epidemiological tracking of L. monocytogenes implicated in food-borne illness. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1663244/
Abstract: We developed a program intended to modify maternal attitudes towards feeding in order to delay the introduction of solids to infants until they are 2 months of age. The program was provided by nurses using an individualized, educational approach. To evaluate its efficacy, a randomized trial design was used. The results in the 2 groups were comparable. The educational trial's lack of success when compared to others and the reasons for this are discussed. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1663273/
Abstract: The objectives of the study were to determine whether the follicular (F; days 6-11) and luteal (L; days 16-21) phases of the menstrual cycle were associated with changes in starch malabsorption, stool bulking, stool mucinase, and beta-glucuronidase activities in 10 women (24.1 +/- 0.7 years old) eating a standardized low-fibre diet. Starch malabsorption, measured by breath hydrogen excretion after a breakfast of pureed chickpea (days 10 and 20) versus 10 g lactulose (days 11 and 21), decreased from 9.7 +/- 1.8 g/50 g starch ingested (F) to 6.6 +/- 1.8 g/50 g starch ingested (L) (P less than 0.05). Stool wet weight decreased from 84.5 +/- 10.1 g/day (F) to 52.2 +/- 5.8 g/day (L) (P less than 0.002). Stool dry weight decreased from 20.2 +/- 1.9 g/day (F) to 14.2 +/- 1.1 g/day (L) (P less than 0.006). Stool nitrogen excretion decreased from 1.81 +/- 0.19 g/day (F) to 0.82 +/- 0.06 g/day (L) (P less than 0.006). Stool mucinase and beta-glucuronidase activities were unaffected by the menstrual cycle. These results indicate that women eating low-fibre Western diets may be more prone to constipation during the luteal phase of the menstrual cycle. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1663444/
Abstract: Diabetes diets should aim at ensuring an ideal body weight with normoglycemia and normolipidemia. The consensus recommendations of various diabetes associations suggest that these goals are most likely to be achieved by diets high in complex carbohydrates and fiber and low in fat. A typical diabetes diet containing 55-60% energy as carbohydrate (at least 66% complex), less than 30% energy as fat, 0.8 g.kg-1 desirable body wt.day-1 protein, and approximately 40 g fiber/day, improves glycemic control, reduces levels of serum atherogenic lipids, decreases blood pressure in those with hypertension, and reduces body weight in the obese. This diet also reduces insulin requirements in the insulin-treated patient and can promote discontinuation of insulin therapy in those with non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus. This article presents our experience with high-fiber high-carbohydrate diets and reviews knowledge on the likely mechanisms of action of fiber, its long-term effectiveness, and the concerns about its long-term safety. We suggest that reports on the risk of hypertriglyceridemia from on the risk of hypertriglyceridemia from high-carbohydrate diets are inconsistent and invalidated if those diets are also high in fiber content. Similarly, we urge some caution in prescribing high-monounsaturated fat diets as an alternative to high-carbohydrate diets, at least until the long-term implications of the former are clearer. We believe that there is no compelling reason to change the current diabetes diets, which should continue to be high in carbohydrate and fiber content. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1663445/
Abstract: The metabolic effects of a three-month treatment with a high-fiber diet (15 grams of guar-gum added to a standard diet) were investigated in seven type 1 diabetic subjects, with a moderately poor metabolic control. HbA1c levels, daily insulin requirement, cholesterol, triglyceride, amino acid and intermediate metabolite concentrations were evaluated before and following the high fiber diet, both in the postabsorptive state at euglycemia and during a euglycemic, hyperinsulinemic, hyperaminoacidemic clamp. Insulin-mediated glucose utilization, an index of insulin-sensitivity, was also measured during the clamp. Following the diet, no differences in HbA1c levels (7.6 +/- 0.7%----7.3 +/- 0.6%), daily insulin requirement (50 +/- 5----51 +/- 3 U/d), triglyceride, amino acid and intermediary metabolite concentrations in the basal, euglycemic state, were observed. Only cholesterol concentrations decreased significantly (from 165 +/- 12 to 142 +/- 12 mg/dl, P less than 0.01) after the diet. During the clamp, the concentrations of all measured substrates were comparable before and after high fiber treatment. Insulin-mediated glucose disposal was also unchanged by guar-gum treatment. Patients' body weights were not modified by the diet. In conclusion, our study shows that a high fiber diet, obtained with the addition of 15 grams of guar-gum to a standard diet, is of no benefit to IDDM either as regards the metabolic control or insulin sensitivity. Only cholesterol levels were decreased. Therefore, the costs and benefits of these diets in the treatment of IDDM should be reconsidered. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1663443/
Abstract: Dietary recommendations for the treatment of diabetic patients issued by national and international diabetes associations consistently emphasize the need to increase carbohydrate consumption. However, these recommendations have been questioned on the basis of growing evidence that, in both insulin-dependent and non-insulin-dependent diabetic patients, a high-carbohydrate diet does not offer any advantage in terms of blood glucose and plasma lipid concentrations compared with a high-fat (mainly unsaturated) diet. It has been shown repeatedly that a high-carbohydrate diet increases plasma insulin and triglyceride levels and can deteriorate blood glucose control in the postprandial period. However, much of the controversy between advocates and detractors of dietary carbohydrate can be settled by taking into account dietary fiber. Several studies have shown that the adverse metabolic effects of high-carbohydrate diets are neutralized when fiber and carbohydrate are increased simultaneously in the diet for diabetic patients. In particular, these studies demonstrated that a high-carbohydrate/high-fiber diet significantly improves blood glucose control and reduces plasma cholesterol levels in diabetic patients compared with a low-carbohydrate/low-fiber diet. In addition, a high-carbohydrate/high-fiber diet does not increase plasma insulin and triglyceride concentrations, despite the higher consumption of carbohydrates. Unfortunately, dietary fiber represents a heterogenous category, and there is still much to understand as to which foods should be preferred to maximize the metabolic effects of fiber. There are indications that only water-soluble fiber is active on plasma glucose and lipoprotein metabolism in humans. Therefore, in practice, the consumption of legumes, vegetables, and fruits--rich in water-soluble fiber--should be particularly encouraged. The mechanisms by which dietary fiber exerts its hypoglycemic and hypolipidemic activities are unknown. However, the ability of dietary fiber to retard food digestion and nutrient absorption certainly has an important influence on lipid and carbohydrate metabolism. The beneficial effects of high-fiber foods are also exerted by some foods not particularly rich in fiber. The fiber content and physical form of the food can influence the accessibility of nutrients by digestive enzymes, thus delaying digestion and absorption. The identification of these foods with a low-glycemic response would help enlarge the list of foods particularly suitable for diabetic patients. In conclusion, a diet low in cholesterol and saturated fat should be recommended to all diabetic patients to prevent cardiovascular disease. A balanced increase in consumption of fiber-rich foods and unsaturated fat is the most rational way to replace foods rich in saturated fat and cholesterol in the diabetic diet. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1663391/
Abstract: The effectiveness of guar gum in reducing post-prandial blood glucose and plasma insulin levels in human subjects seems to depend mainly on its ability to increase the viscosity of digesta in the small intestine. However, the precise relationship between the rheological properties of guar gum (either in vitro or in vivo) and the changes in blood metabolites and hormones is unknown. The aim of the present study, therefore, was to investigate the effects of wheat breads containing guar gum samples varying in molecular weight (Mw) and particle size (characteristics that strongly influence the rheological properties of guar gum) on post-prandial blood glucose and plasma insulin levels in healthy subjects. The sensory qualities of breads containing guar-gum flours of different Mw were also evaluated using a hedonic scoring technique. No significant differences in the post-prandial blood glucose responses were found between the control and guar breads. However, all the guar breads elicited significant (P less than 0.05) decreases in the post-prandial rise in plasma insulin, an effect that did not appear to be influenced by large variations in Mw or particle size of guar gum. Moreover, the sensory qualities of guar bread were markedly improved by using low Mw grades of guar gum. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1663525/
Abstract: This study describes the relationship between varying ascorbate intake, periodontal status, and subgingival microflora as part of a multidisciplinary investigation of ascorbic acid (AA) metabolism in young men housed for 13 weeks in a nutrition suite that provided controlled periods of ascorbic acid depletion and repletion. Twelve medically healthy non-smoking men, aged 25 to 43 years, ate a rotating four-day diet adequate in all nutrients except ascorbic acid. Following an initial baseline period during which the subjects received 250 mg AA/day, the subjects received 5 mg AA/day for a 32-day depletion period. Eight of the 12 subjects participated in a subsequent 56-day repletion period designed to replace the reduced body AA pool slowly. Plasma and leukocyte ascorbate levels, Plaque Index, Gingival Index, probing depths, and attachment level were monitored at the beginning and end of the depletion and repletion periods. Subgingival plaque samples were obtained and examined for selected organisms by indirect immunofluorescence microscopy. A uniform oral hygiene program was reinforced after each examination. Ascorbate concentrations in plasma and leukocytes responded rapidly to changes in vitamin C intake. There were no significant changes in plaque accumulation, probing pocket depth, or attachment level during the study. In contrast, gingival bleeding increased significantly after the period of AA depletion and returned to baseline values after the period of AA repletion. However, no relationship could be demonstrated between either the presence or proportion of target periodontal micro-organisms and measures of bleeding or ascorbate levels. 

Link: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1663446/
Abstract: The long-acting effect of a 10-min pulse infusion of the beta 2-adrenergic agonist fenoterol on oral glucose tolerance tests in controls and in normotensive patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus on diet was compared. During an oral glucose load starting 2 h after fenoterol control persons showed hyperglycemia (area: 25,950 +/- 467 vs. 22,650 +/- 410, P less than 0.01), hyperinsulinemia (area: 13,980 +/- 1050 vs. 8160 +/- 405, P less than 0.02) and a pronounced fall of serum potassium (area: 775 +/- 26 vs. 748 +/- 25, P less than 0.02). The patient group showed no late response to fenoterol: plasma glucose (area: 51,000 +/- 382 vs. 51,300 +/- 413, n.s.), serum insulin (area: 7215 +/- 233 vs. 8280 +/- 410, n.s.), serum potassium (area: 748 +/- 26 vs. 750 +/- 24, n.s.). The data show that there is a defect of the beta 2-adrenergic long-acting effect on glucose metabolism and on insulin release in type 2 diabetes mellitus. 

